Cristiano Ronaldo is a Portuguese professional player who plays for the Portuguese national football team, and he won the best player in the world in 2008. All people consider him one of the best elite players in the modern era of football. He played within the Manchester United club previously, then Real Madrid now, he started playing ball Football When he was three years old, his passion for football was evident from the elementary stage of his studies. He started playing with an amateur team, Andorinha, when he was only eight years old, and his father was a tool repairer at that club. By 1995, when he was 10, the two major clubs in Madeira wanted Ronaldo to join the club's youth ranks. FIFA chose him as the best player in the world for the year 2008. In July 2009, Manchester United agreed to move him to Real Madrid in exchange for (94 million euros, 132 million dollars), which is considered the most expensive deal in the history of the sport. Cristiano Ronaldo was born on February 5, 1985 in the Portuguese island of Madeira, Cristiano Ronado loves philosophy with hate and tries to score goals by himself. He is an artist and Cristiano played for Manchester United for several years and went to the Spanish royal club Real Madrid. Although FC Porto and Boavista wanted to include him, his father refused, because he was still a young man. All the clubs that dealt with him admired his talent for his age, as well as his maturity and lack of recklessness. And in 2002, he played for the first time against Morirense Club and scored two goals in his first appearance, thus fulfilling his dream and also the fans loved him very much, and he felt confident after scoring goals and encouraging the fans, and he scored a goal against Boavista, which is one of the teams competing for the title. On October 19, 2005, British police interrogated Ronaldo on charges of raping a young woman in a central London hotel, where a young woman claimed that Ronaldo had raped her in a luxurious hotel apartment a day after the match between Manchester and Fulham. But the prosecution service later indicated that there is not enough evidence to charge the Portuguese player. On February 7, 2007 Spanish newspapers reported rumors of Cristiano Ronaldo's transfer to Barcelona in negotiations at the time, one of the parties was rumored to be the famous Saudi businessman Mansour Al-Balawi, president of the Saudi club Al-Ittihad and an honorary member of Barcelona. Cristiano Ronaldo had a role in the incident of his English teammate Wayne Rooney's expulsion in the England-Portugal match during their 2006 World Cup match. Because of this incident, he faced the rebuke and ridicule of the English fans at the start of the football season in England, and Ronaldo had appeared to incite the referee of the match to expel Rooney after the latter stepped on the Portuguese player Ricardo Carvalho. The owner of Cristiano Ronaldo has caused Rooney to obtain a red card with extensive media coverage, as some newspapers published news that Wayne Rooney expressed his extreme anger at Ronaldo the morning after the match and told his colleagues in the hotel dining room that he “will cut Ronaldo in two pieces and that he will slap him and smash his head for him and not Someone can blame me for that. " Ronaldo joined the ranks of the Sporting Lisbon youth team at the age of 16, which was based in the neighboring Cushitic city, where he moved away for the first time from his hometown and his family, but he received professional football training for the first time. The management of Sporting Lisbon realized that Ronaldo's departure from His family may affect his performance and he needs more family support, so the club management decided to arrange for his mother to move from Madeira to the Cushitic city. It was his first official match with Sporting Lisbon against Morirense FC, and Ronaldo scored two goals in that match. Ronaldo joined the Portuguese national football team under the age of 17 in a tournament organized by the European Football Association, where Ronaldo was given a wider observation and interest. Ronaldo watched carefully from Most of the big clubs in Europe, including Liverpool and Juventus, were the first to notice Ronaldo's skills accurately, former Liverpool coach Gérard Ouyer and offered to the club management to include Ronaldo in his ranks, but the management rejected the idea because Ronaldo was young, as he was only 16 years old and the club president said that Ronaldo is young He needs some time to prepare him as a top-flight soccer player. He had his 28-day experience at Arsenal, England, but the negotiations were unsuccessful. In the summer of 2003, in a match for Sporting Lisbon against Manchester United, Ronaldo aroused the interest of Manchester club coach Alex Ferguson when Sporting Lisbon beat Manchester United in an international friendly match marking the opening of the Alvaldi Stadium in Lisbon, where Ronaldo was the main reason that made Manchester United lose 3 - 1 As he proved his ability to play on all wings, and after the match the Manchester players talked about Ronaldo's level of play, then urged Ferguson to buy him because other clubs were about to buy him, so on August 18, 2003 Cristiano Ronaldo wore the red shirt. . Manchester Irish defender John O'Shea was ridiculed by his team-mates at the end of the match because their talk focused on the way Ronaldo Dodged O'Shea throughout the ninety minutes to lead his team to victory and they rushed to talk to Ferguson about it to express to him their admiration for the high techniques of this player. Ronaldo was speaking in the press the next day, and it was unanimously agreed that he was one of the stars of the future, so that one of them did not hesitate to say, "We do not need Beckham with Ronaldo." Queiroz commented on Real Madrid's offer to buy Ronaldo for 120 million euros: World money is not enough to buy Ronaldo. No, no. Rather, Real Madrid's money alone is enough to buy 10 Cristiano and a lot remains. On September 7, 2005, Ronaldo's father, Denis Aveiro, passed away, but only hours after receiving the news, he played for Portugal in the 2006 World Cup qualifiers against Russia, but the Manchester club coach granted him leave and allowed him to return to his hometown to participate in the funeral ceremonies for his father. On September 10, 2005, Ronaldo missed his Manchester team's match with Manchester Derby on that day, but he played for Manchester in his subsequent match against Villarreal in the Champions League. In October 2005 Ronaldo was questioned with another man by British police for sexual assault, but the charge was dropped due to insufficient evidence. In September 2006, some newspapers published allegations that Ronaldo had an affair with a Portuguese TV presenter named Merch Romero, who was divorced and nine years older than Ronaldo. For his part, Ronaldo did not confirm or deny these allegations and chose to keep his personal life separate from the noise of the press. After World Cup 2006 qualifiers, Ronaldo traveled to Indonesia to visit tsunami-affected areas and support victims of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and met with Indonesian Vice President Yusuf Kalla and East Timor President Shanana Gusmao and contributed to a campaign donation amounting to $ 120,000 from a public auction of his personal sportswear. Paying the travel expenses of an earthquake victim with his father to attend one of the Portugal national team matches in the 2006 World Cup qualifiers. Ronaldo owns a house worth up to 3 million pounds in a suburb of Manchester. After he moved to Real Madrid, he sold him this house to a 6-year-old Manchester City player. 5 million euros after Cristiano Ronaldo bought it for 3. 0 million euros in 2003 Manchester United coach Alex Ferguson was looking for a right-winger for his team after David Beckham moved to Real Madrid. Ronaldo signed his transfer contract to Manchester for the amount of 12. 24 million pounds sterling and his first official match was with Manchester as a substitute player up to the 60th minute of the match against Bolton Wanderers and the result for that moment was 1 0 in favor of Manchester, he entered the match an hour after its start and the fans received him a warm welcome at Old Trafford and he performed the match actively and Bolton's defense tightened, after Ronaldo entered the match, he made two goals and got a penalty kick due to an illegal blocking by Ruud van Nistelrooy, but the goalkeeper managed to block the penalty kick, but that did not affect the final result of the match as it ended in Manchester 4 0 victory. After that match, the name Ronaldo began to appear abundantly in the British press with headlines such as "The Seventh Heaven" and the media declared that he was one of Manchester's best players, and he was compared to the legend of the Red Devils, George Best. The responsibility was great for Ronaldo because he wore the number 7 jersey that had previously been worn by the best players in the club's history, including George Best, Brian Robson, Frenchman Eric Cantona and star David Beckham. Ronaldo ran into trouble because of his temper at times during matches, as he was kicked off the field in a match against Manchester City and was banned by the European Football Association from playing one game for directing the middle finger of Benfica fans as a way to insult that club's fans in a Champions League match in December 2005. . During a friendly match for Portugal with the Luxembourg national football team, Ronaldo got a yellow card for pushing a player by the neck in response to a blockage he suffered by that player. On October 29, 2005, Ronaldo managed to score the 1000th goal in the history of Manchester club in the English Premier League. Ronaldo matured a lot during his first year with Manchester and played a major role in the Portugal national football team progressing to the European Nations Cup Final 2004, where they played against Greece in a match played on The land of Portugal, Portugal was defeated by a goal scored by a counter attack from the Greek national team's defense. Ronaldo was also chosen to play in the Portuguese Olympic soccer team in 2004, and despite the team's failure in this tournament, all the lights were on the young star Ronaldo and it turned out that he had become one of the giants of Portuguese football. In the Athens Olympic Games, the Iraqi Olympic soccer team defeated Portugal 4-2, and everyone expected Portugal to win. During the match, Ronaldo escaped the expulsion penalty, and the referee was satisfied with his warning after he hit the Iraqi striker Yunus Mahmoud with an elbow and caused him a severe wound above his eye in the 19th minute. Second half . . Ronaldo's international debut for Portugal was in August 2003 against the Kazakhstan national football team. Ronaldo scored the only goal for Portugal in the match in which his team lost to Greece 2 1 in the opening match of the 2004 European Football Championship, and he also scored the first goal in the semi-final in the same tournament against ((Arab Republic of Egypt. Portugal group was in the 2006 World Cup) It includes Iran, Angola and Mexico, and Ronaldo was able to score a goal against Iran from a penalty kick, and after the Portuguese team qualified for the second round, he met with the Netherlands national football team, and he left that match while he was injured after contact with a defender Dutchman Khaled Boulahrouz, Portugal won 1-0, and the team qualified for the quarter-finals In the quarter-final round, Portugal met its English counterpart, and the match between the two teams ended in a draw, and after referring to penalty kicks, Ronaldo scored the last kick Penalties to lead his country to victory over England, but the English press blamed him for his behavior in the expulsion of Wayne Rooney, as Wayne Rooney hit Portuguese defender Ricardo Carvalho, so Cristiano Ronaldo ran 40 meters to reach the referee. A match to protest with him, asking him to expel his Manchester United team-mate. In the semi-final round, the Portuguese national football team met its French counterpart, and the French team won with a goal for nothing, and the Portugal national team, the owner of the land and the public, met the German national football team in the third and fourth place match, and Germany was able to win With three goals to one goal, and at the end of the tournament, Cristiano Ronaldo was competing with German Lucas Podolski and Ecuadorian Luis Valencia for the Best Young Player award in the tournament, but Lucas Podolski won this award after the selection committee decided that Ronaldo's actions did not help him win. Such unfairness. After indirectly causing the expulsion of Wayne Rooney and writing in the British press about being the main reason for Rooney's red card, Ronaldo told some journalists that he thought it was better for him to leave Manchester because after that incident the conditions might be inappropriate to stay there and said he was ready. To move to Real Madrid and that he dreams of playing in the Spanish League, but it is a postponed step because he is still at the beginning of his football career. ”Ronaldo said:“ I am happy with the interest of Real, which is one of the great clubs in the world. No one can predict what will happen in the future and I will leave Things are going as they go. ”On July 9, 2006, in an interview with Portuguese television, Ronaldo said: I do not understand at all a convincing reason for all this attack on me by the British press, because I did not act wrongly because the England national team lost that match and no one can blame me for defense As for the colors of my country, I cannot work and live in a place that people do not like me in. Although Ronaldo expressed his desire to play in Spain one day, on March 8, 2007 he began negotiations with Manchester United on extending the contract that expires. However, the club in 2010 and the BBC stated on its website that Manchester was keen to keep the Portuguese player, described by Alex Ferguson as the coach of the team as the best player in the world. On November 25, 2006, the British newspaper "Sun" confirmed that Ronaldo would become a specialist in penalties at Manchester United after the failure of French striker Louis Saha to pay the penalty kick that was awarded to Manchester in one of his matches in the Champions League competition. And now the player has moved to Real Madrid in a deal that is the highest in the world with a value of 96 million euros. Ronaldo loves Udinese player Antonio De Natali and considers him an example to him.