Computer software or software is a generic term used to describe a set of computer programs, procedures, and technical instruction manuals that perform a task in a computer operating system. The term software includes the following: The term software includes websites, programs, video games and other programs and applications that are coded (i.e. writing their own code) using programming languages, such as C, C ++, etc. The term "software" is sometimes used in a broader context to mean anything other than the components of a computer, but it is used with components of a computer such as films, tapes and records. The term "software" often includes everything in a computer except for computer hardware; That is, the physical components of a computer, but programs are intangible materials inside a computer. "Software" or "computer programs" includes a very large group of products and technological means developed using different technologies, such as programming languages, script languages, or even MicroCodes or FPGAs. Among the types of "software" comes the websites developed through some modern technologies, such as HTML, PHP, Perl, JSP and ASP. NET and XML, in addition to desktop applications, such as Microsoft Word and OpenOffice, which were created using some modern technologies, such as c language, c ++, Java, c # ... etc. And usually computer programs run on some operating system, such as the "Microsoft Windows" or "Linux" operating system. This is in addition to computer programs containing video games and logic systems for modern customers' devices, such as cars, televisions, toasters, etc. Computer programs are named after this name to distinguish them from the components of a "hardware" computer, which includes connections and physical devices necessary to store and run the programs. At the lower level, the term software also includes the programming languages ??for a computer, or what is known as (Machine Language), which deals with a single processor (or processor). The programming language of a computer consists of sets of binary values ??that express the instructions of the processor and that change the state of the computer from its previous state. A "software" is an ordered series of instructions to change the state of "hardware" in a specific sequence. These instructions are usually written in a high-level programming language that a person can handle easily and efficiently (which is closer to the natural human language) than the programming language that a computer understands (Machine Language). All code sentences written in high-level programming languages ??are converted and executed into a sentence using the Interpreter tool or executed in batch with the Compiler tool. And the code resulting from this conversion is called Machine Language or Object Code. Programs can also be written using Assembly - which is essentially a representation of the programming language that a computer understands, using the English alphabet. Assembly should be converted into the programming language that your computer understands using the Assembler tool. The term "software" was first used in this sense, "John Wilder Tookey" in 1958. The theory that is the basis for most modern computer programs was first introduced by "Alan Turing" in his article published in 1935 Computable numbers with an application to the Entscheidungsproblem. Mike Haley, 2005. Practical computer systems divide software systems into three main categories: system software, programming software, and application programs, although this classification may appear arbitrary and often unclear. System software helps to run the hardware and operating system components of a computer. System software includes: (It is not necessary to know these programs in detail) The aim of the systems software is not to overload the application programmer with the details of the computer, including the peripheral devices, such as communication devices, printers, display devices, readers, keyboards ... etc. This is in addition to the details of dividing computer resources, such as memory and processing time, in a safe and stable manner. Programming programs mostly provide tools to assist a programmer in writing computer programs using different programming languages, but in an easy way. Tools Include: The Integrated Development Environment is a single application intended to help manage all of these functions. Application programs allow end users to perform one or more tasks (not directly related to computer development). Typical applications include: There are many issues related to application software. Computer users often see things differently than programmers. People who use modern general-purpose computers (as opposed to embedded systems, analog computers, large and ultra-fast computers, etc.) usually classify computer programs that perform a variety of tasks into three layers: operating system software, application software, and user software. Most computer programs have a technical instruction manual for the program so that the end user can understand the program, what it does, and how to use it. If there is no easy and clear technical instruction manual, it may be difficult to use the program, especially if it is a specialized and relatively complex program, such as Photoshop, AutoCAD, etc. The developer's technical instruction manual may also be present either with the code in the form of comments and / or in the form of separate files explaining how to run the program and how to make some modifications to it. Executable files are usually not complete enough to make it possible to execute them directly. A set of Software Libraries includes collections of functions and uses that can be included in other applications. Operating systems contain many standard program files, and applications are often distributed with their own. Computer programs should be "loaded" into the storage section of the computer (eg, [hard disk], memory, or random access memory) known as RAM. Once the program has been downloaded, the computer will be able to run the program. This involves passing instructions from the application program and through the system program to the hard-ware (computer hardware) that ultimately receives the instructions in the form of a programming language that the computer itself understands. Each line of code makes the computer perform a specific operation, such as transferring data, performing calculations, or changing control of the flow of instructions. Usually the data transfer from one place to another is in the memory. Sometimes the matter involves transferring data between the main memory and storage areas of the CPU (Register); Allowing quick access to data in the CPU. Transferring data, especially if it is in large quantities, can be costly. Hence, this can sometimes be avoided by using data "indicators". The math operations include performing some simple operations, such as increasing the value of the variable's data element. More complex mathematical operations may require the use of many operations and data elements together. The quality of computer programs is very important, especially commercial programs and programs that work with the operating system, such as "Microsoft Office" programs, as well as programs of the operating system itself such as "Microsoft Windows" and "Linux" ... etc. If the software is faulty, it can delete work files, crash your computer, and cause other unexpected things to happen. Errors and problems are called Bugs. The program has a bug. It is worth noting that many errors are discovered and eliminated during software testing. However, software testing is seldom able to eliminate all errors, and some programmers argue that "every program contains at least one error" (Lubarsky's law). All major computer software companies, such as "Microsoft", "Novell" and "Sun Microsystems", have their own software testing departments whose primary goal is to test the quality of the programs and ensure their effectiveness. Computer programs can be tested by testing modules and testing program problems in addition to other methods that are performed manually or automatically and this is the most common; As the amount of code that is tested may be very large. For example, NASA has implemented very strict procedures to test the space shuttle's computer programs and others; Because any software containing errors can halt the entire program, disable the vehicle and cause heavy losses. The computer program license gives the user the right to use the software within the framework and terms of this license. Some programs come with a license to use when you buy them yourself, or they may come with an OEM license from the original company when the purchased computer comes with the software installed. Whereas, there are other programs that come with a free use license and that gives the user the right to modify and redistribute the program. In addition, there are some free or trial programs. See also: License Management. A computer program can be patented, but this may be a matter of contention in the field of software; There are many divergent opinions on this matter. The point of disagreement around the subject of computer software patents is that it is not allowed to copy the logarithm or certain technology included in the program by other people, as it is considered intellectual property, and copying or re-publication is prohibited, according to the degree of importance of the program. Here, some believe that the patenting of a computer program impedes the development of the program, while others argue that patents are a strong incentive to encourage the creation of new computer programs. There is more than one way to create, license, and distribute computer programs. For example, free software or open source software is available for modification and development by all users. Although some programs offered under an open source license (such as the General Public License, the General Public License) can be sold for an amount of money, while some supporters of free computer programs raise slogans, such as "Information should be accessible to everyone without restrictions" hinting that it is easy to copy digital data and that licenses (imposed by laws) are restrictions set by humans. Some programmers and users of open source computer programs see it as just one model among many models for creating programs. Computer and obtain a license to use and distribute it. This is in addition to the fact that laws have been established with the aim of increasing creative production, by allowing creators to control their intellectual property and make the most of it. Computer programs are usually designed and built (by writing their code or programming it) in Integrated Development Environments (IDE), such as emacs, xemacs, Microsoft Visual Studio, and Eclipse that all simplify the writing and converting process with the Compiler tool. As we have already mentioned, a new program is usually created based on an already existing program and using the Application Programming Interface (API) of the main program, such as GTK +, JavaBeans, Swing ... etc. A set of API files are classified according to different purposes. For example, JavaBeans is used in the design of corporate applications, while Windows Forms is used to design graphical User Interface (GUI) applications, such as Microsoft Word, and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) is used in designing web services. Fundamental in computer programming, such as the Quicksort method, the Hashtable conversion table (a data structure that assigns numerical values, say a phone number) to the required elements, the name of a person)), the array, and the structure of the binary tree with binary data. New. When a computer program is designed, it relies on an API. For example, if a user designs a Windows desktop application, he or she can use the .NET Windows Forms program file set to design desktop applications and call an interface Application Programming Interface (API), such as Form1. Close () and Form1. Show () to close or open the application and type Additional operations he needs by himself. Without APIs, the programmer would need to write the APIs himself. Some companies, such as Sun Microsystems, Novell and Microsoft, provide their own APIs to the point that many applications are written using Software Libraries that have their own program files that usually contain multiple APIs. Computer programs have economic characteristics that make their design, construction, and distribution different from most other economic goods. Computer software designer is called by many names such as programmer, software engineer, program designer and professional programmer, all of which have the same meaning. Computer software has its own market which is called the software industry and it consists of different companies and people who produce computer programs. As a result, there are many companies specializing in producing computer software and programmers in the world. Due to the increasing use of computer programs in many different fields, such as finance, research, mathematics, space exploration, games, mining, etc., software companies and programmers usually specialize in certain areas. For example, the company "Electronic Arts" specializes in designing video games. Plus, selling computer software can be a very lucrative business. For example, Microsoft founder Bill Gates was classified in 2008 as the second richest man in the world, largely due to selling Windows and Office programs. The same is true of "Larry Ellison" because of the "database program" "Oracle." There are many institutions specializing in non-profit computer software, such as the "Free Software Foundation", "GNU Project" and "Mozilla Foundation". In addition, there are many institutions that specialize in setting software standards for computer software standards, such as W3C, "IETF" and other institutions that try to set standards for programs, so that computer programs can work with each other, as happens through XML and HTML standards. HTTP, FTP and others.