The Crusades, or the Crusades in general, is a name given to a group of campaigns and wars carried out by Europeans in the late eleventh century to the last third of the thirteenth century (1096 - 1291). These were mainly cavalry wars. They hid under the robe of the Christian religion and the emblem of the cross in order to defend it, for their main goal, which was to seize the land of the East at a time when the East was the source of wealth. The main cause of the downfall of the Byzantines was due to the devastation caused by the first expeditions passing in Byzantium (the city of Constantinople), the capital of the Byzantine Empire, and the subsequent shifting of the campaigns towards it. The Crusades were a series of religious conflicts waged by much of Christian Europe against external and internal threats. The Crusades were fought against Muslims, pagan Slavs, Russian Christians, Greek Orthodoxy, Mongols, and political enemies of the Popes. Crusaders took promises and granted indulgence. The goal of the Crusades in the first place was to recover Jerusalem and the Holy Land from the Muslims, and the rule was originally launched in response to a call from the Eastern Orthodox Byzantine Empire to help expand against the Muslim Seljuks of Anatolia. The term Crusades is also used to describe contemporary wars and their subsequent campaigns in the sixteenth century in regions outside the Levant. Usually against pagans, heretics, and peoples subject to the prohibition of expulsion for a combination of religious, economic, and political reasons. Rivalries between Christians and Muslims with both powers also led to alliances between religious factions against their opponents, such as the Christian alliance with the Sultanate of Rum during the Fifth Crusade. The Crusades were far-reaching political, economic, and social influences, some of which continued into contemporary times. Due to internal conflicts between Christian kingdoms and political forces, some crusader missions have been diverted from the original goal, such as the Fourth Crusade, which resulted in the sack of Christian Constantinople and the division of the Byzantine Empire between Venice and the Crusaders. The Sixth Crusade was the first crusade without the blessing of the Pope, and it established a precedent that rulers other than the Pope could initiate a crusade. The Crusaders were called in the Arabic texts the Franks or the Franks, and the Crusades were called the Frankish wars. In the West, the Crusaders were called by various names, such as the believers of Saint Peter (fideles Sancti Petri) or the soldiers of Christ (milites Christ). Pilgrims, and the name "armed pilgrims" was used to describe them in an indication that pilgrims do not usually carry weapons. The crusaders used to vow or vow to pray to Jerusalem and obtain a cross from a cloth sewn to their clothes, and taking this cross became an indication of the whole journey that every crusader undertakes. In the Middle Ages, these wars were referred to by Europeans with terms corresponding to wanderlust, circumambulation, roaming (peregrinatio) and the road to the Holy Land (iter in terram sanctam). Nineteenth, Louis Mombour, 1675. The Islamic presence in the First Holy Land began with the Islamic conquest of Palestine in the seventh century. No such interference was noticed much with the pilgrimage to Christian holy places or the security of Christian monasteries and sects in the Holy Land, and the countries of Western Europe were less concerned with the loss of Jerusalem in the decades and centuries that followed, through Muslim invasions and other hostility to non-Christians, such as the Vikings, The Slavs, however, the successes of the Muslim armies placed increasing pressure on the Eastern Orthodox Byzantine Empire. Among the other factors that contributed to this change in Western attitudes towards the East came in the year 1009, when the Fatimid Caliph Al-Hakim, God willing, ordered the destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. In 1039 his successor to the Byzantine Empire allowed the rebuilding of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. Hajj permitted the Holy Land before and after the rebuilding of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. The origin of the Crusades lies in developments in Western Europe earlier in the Middle Ages, as well as the deterioration of the Byzantine Empire in the east caused by a new wave of Muslim Turkish attacks. The collapse of the Carolingian empire in the late 9th century, along with the relative stability of European local borders after the Christianization of the Vikings, Slavs, and Hungary, had produced a large armed class and the emergence of energies that were out of place to fight each other and terrorize the local population. The Church tried to curb this violence with the peace and armistice movements of God, which were somewhat successful, but the warriors always sought an outlet for their skills, and the opportunities for regional expansion became less attractive to large sections of the nobility. One exception is the takeover in Spain and Portugal, the knights of Spain and Portugal and some mercenaries from elsewhere in Europe in the fight against the Islamic presence. Pope Alexander II gave his blessing to the Christians of Iberia in their wars against the Muslims. The Crusades were also stripped other than fighting Islam and Muslims, as their aim at the beginning was also to fight the Pope against his opponents. The Crusaders came from northern France to the south of France to fight the Albigensian heretics. From the end of the eleventh century, signs of resistance began against the Papal Church in Rome and its control over European affairs of life, and at the end of the twelfth century the ideas that Jouchim Flora took to calling for them, and his religious ideas met with remarkable speed. And Joachim followed the path of St. Bernard, who claimed that the world had entered the era of the Antichrist, which precedes the resurrection. Whereas San Bernard was content to condemn the great bishops as being prisoners of Satan, Joachim made the papacy itself the antichrist. And by this he turned the right of the Pope of Rome to inherit Christ on its head. He gained wide popularity among all the opposing groups, and as a result of his ideas, a group emerged that gathered around a huge number of followers in southern France called Czthari, meaning the pure or Albigensians, relative to the town of Albi in Toulouse province, which was their stronghold. At the end of the twelfth century, the wealthy city-dwellers and nobles of Toulouse and Provence were either members of the Albigensian Church or sympathetic to its leaders. And the papacy in Rome in the year 1200 AD saw in the Albigensian control of southern France a cancer eating into the body of the Christian world that must be eradicated at any cost, because it saw in it a different religion. The events developed in the manner that led to the Pope of Rome announcing a decision to excommunicate Raymond VI, Prince of Toulouse, and the permission of his lands and the property of the Albigensians, so the princes of northern France were enthusiastic and rushed into a crusade in the year 1209 that eliminated the feudal princes in southern France, and divided their fiefs. We can also picture the partial invasion of Ireland by the Anglo-Normans as a type of Crusade, even though its victims were Catholics. The beginning of the Crusades came during a period when Europe was almost completely victorious after the conversion of the Vikings, Slavs, and Hungary to Christianity. The European warrior class had become without an enemy to fight him, so they spread terror among the population, and they turned to theft, cutting roads and fighting between them, so the Church had to try to reduce the prevention of that against certain groups at certain times in order to control the state of chaos. At the same time, the Europeans were allowed to pay attention to the issue of the Holy Land that the Muslims had conquered several centuries ago, and Europeans could not pay attention to it because they were preoccupied with wars against non-Christians from the Vikings and the Hungarians who were previously the closest geographically formed problem, and the Church also began to play a role in the recovery war in Spain. Pope Alexander II in 1063 blessed the warriors going to Andalusia, which played a major role in the formation of the idea of ??holy war. The papal call for the Crusades was initiated by Pope Urban II in November 1095 by holding a council of clerics in the French city of Clermont-Ferrand, and many campaigns had justified the application of the "will of God" through pilgrimage to the Holy Land to atone for sins, and the invitations told about the persecution of the ruling Islam for the Christians in the Holy Land and calls for their liberation, and these religious motives retreated with the passage of time to the point of destroying the eastern Christian city of Constantinople in the first and fourth Crusades at the hands of the Crusaders themselves. The inheritance law applied in Europe stipulated that the eldest son inherits the properties of his father and his slaves after his death, and the movables are distributed among his children, and because of this law a class of nobles or masters who did not own fiefs arose, and titles such as "without land" and "destitute" were common An indication of their lack of ownership of a plot of land, and many of these people saw their opportunity in the Crusades to obtain land in the East, and others saw in it an opportunity to expand their possessions by including new properties, just as the poor would find in it an opportunity for a new, better life and a means to get them out of the life of slavery they used to live under Feudal system prevailing at that time. We also do not forget the desire of European coastal cities to achieve commercial gains in exchange for transporting warriors on their ships and the desire of some European knights to get rid of the corrupt feudal system by living in the East, and this is what repeats itself today. The external relations of Europe with the Islamic tide were not reassuring. The Muslims who had fought the Byzantines since the seventh century AD had reached the Pyrenees Mountains in northern Spain and southern France after they took control of North Africa, so the European regions adjacent to the borders of the Islamic state of Andalusia in the Iberian Peninsula and the island of Sicily felt threatened by Islamic control over it, which contributed to the recruitment of Europeans. Motivated to protect and defend their areas. The papacy saw in controlling the Holy Land a great support for its influence. It also saw controlling the Eastern Church in Constantinople as a way to reunify the church under the shadow of the papacy. Economic and competitive factors played a role that was evident in the Fourth Crusade. This led to the continuous erosion of the Crusaders ’defense of the Byzantine Empire. It is difficult to separate the events that occurred during the period of the Crusades. But historians divide the Crusades into the following: A campaign carried out by the poor, serfs, and a small crowd of knights, where the ecclesiastical promise of salvation and winning the spoils was a convincing reason to leave their miserable lives and go to the liberation of Jerusalem. This campaign was led by Peter the Hermit until it reached Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire. The crowds were rushing without stopping and without waiting for the orders of the leadership, leaving behind them devastation and looting in Hungary, Serbs, Greece and Asia Minor, until they were crushed by the Seljuk Turks on October 21, 1096 AD. The number of the Crusaders 25 thousand men . It moved in August 1096 from Lorraine, lines led by Godfrey de Bobon IV, joined by his followers (his older brother Count Eustas of Boulogne and his younger brother Baldwin also from Boulogne, as was joined by Boudouin, Godfrey's cousin Burg, Count Baudouin from Eno and Count Reno of Tolle) Following the call of the campaign of the poor, these factions walked the Rhine-Danube road before them, the poor peasant factions followed. Until I reached Constantinople at the end of 1096. The first campaign resulted in the occupation of Jerusalem in 1099 and the establishment of the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, in addition to several other Crusader areas, such as Edessa, the Principality of Antioch and Tripoli in the Levant. The differences between the local Muslim rulers played a major role in the defeat they were exposed to, such as the differences between the Fatimids in Cairo, and the Turkish Seljuks in Anatolia at that time. Attempts to expel the Crusaders were unsuccessful, as was the attempt of the best Fatimid vizier who arrived in Ashkelon, but then retreated in front of the Crusader gangs that completed control of some of the Levantine and Palestinian countries afterwards. The second campaign began in 1147 and ended in 1192. A period of calm followed, called by Bernard de Clairvo, and its leaders were Louis VII of France and Konrad III Hohenstaufen, Emperor of the Germans (Germany). It was the first campaign in which the kings participated, in which the German legions were hit hard by hunger and disease after a defeat in front of them. Cavalry factions of the Seljuk Sultan of Konya, near Dourlyum, and the French forces suffered a serious defeat near the traitors. Seljuk exhausted Crusaders Bgarathm ongoing . On June 24, 1147, Louis VII and Conrad III, regent Melisanda, met with the notables of Jerusalem. They went to besiege the fortified Damascus, because conquering it heralded abundant spoils. The siege lasted for five days (from 23 to 27 July). But he failed. And the King of Jerusalem, Baudouin, and Baron Tiberias gave up their demand after the deterioration of their military position due to a military maneuver or perhaps through a bribe provided to them by the Damascene Minister Moinuddin Nour. In the year 491 AH / 1097AD; The Crusaders' forces gathered in Constantinople, and after they were prepared, the Bosporus crossed to the Levant, and a battle took place between them and the Seljuks in 1097 AD, at “Dourelium”, but the Seljuks were defeated, then the Crusaders seized Antioch in northern Levant, and established their first emirate, then they seized On Edessa in the northern province of the island, and they established their second emirate and headed to the city of Jerusalem, which includes Jerusalem. In the face of forty thousand fighters, the Fatimid army was unable to break their siege of the city, which lasted a whole month, and finally they entered it on July 15, 1099 CE, and set up a massacre in which they killed all its inhabitants, men, women, children, and alcohols, and they took the city of Jerusalem for a week, killing and destroying them until they were killed in Al-Aqsa Square only Seventy thousand Muslims. It is reported that Raymond, the Crusader commander, occupied “Maarat al-Nu`man,” killing one hundred thousand and setting fire to it, and then established their great state known as the Kingdom of Jerusalem. In this campaign, some important Levant cities such as Aleppo and Damascus remained in Muslim hands. Jerusalem was captured, and the Crusaders felt that they had fulfilled their religious duty to reclaim the Holy City. The Crusaders divided this region into four emirates: the Emirate of Edessa 492 AH / 1098AD, which includes the upper reaches of the Tigris and Euphrates, and its southwestern borders are close to Aleppo, and its capital, which is found on some maps, was the name of Idrisa. As for the second one, it is the Principality of Antioch, located in the Northern Province, southwest of the Emirate of Edessa. Then it is followed in the south by the Emirate of Tripoli, which is located in a narrow strip on the coast, and it is the smallest of these Emirates. The fourth is the Kingdom of Jerusalem, and its eastern borders extend from near present-day Beirut, then follow the Jordan River, where it widens a little, and head south to the Gulf of Aqaba, and its capital was Jerusalem itself. And each of these emirates had a prince or ruler who ruled it, they had captured Jerusalem, and here is their victory had been accomplished, and here is the whole of Europe in increasing joy, but the differences between them had returned to the most severe after they had achieved victory. On July 4, 1187, the historic and pivotal Battle of Hattin took place. Where the Sultan Saladin Al-Ayyubi, Sultan of Egypt and the Levant won, He liberated Jerusalem on October 2, 1187, which prompted Pope Gregory VIII to call for a new crusade. Pope Gregory VIII called it in 1187 in response to Saladin's restoration of Jerusalem and its return to the Muslims. The crusader armies were led by the King of France, Philip August, Richard "Lionheart" of England, and King of the Germans (Germany) Frederick Barbarossa. But Barbarossa drowned in 1190 in the Lamis River. The ranks of his forces were displaced. As for the French and the English, they did not finish preparing for the campaign until 1190, and on the way Richard I expanded his influence in Sicily, which strained relations with the French king and weakened the alliance between them. The Crusaders besieged Acre, which surrendered on June 12, 1191. Philip left for France, and a massacre took place, at the order of Richard and under his command, in Acre. Then he tried to occupy other cities. But they all ended in failure, and in 1192. He made peace with Saladin, and the Crusaders kept a coastal strip extending from Tire to Jaffa, and Saladin allowed pilgrims and merchants to visit Jerusalem and the holy sites. Pope Innocent III called it in 1202. The Crusaders ’initial plan was to push forces into Egypt, to strike the major Islamic force in the region. Then he launched a war from them towards Jerusalem. But the Venetians, who took charge of directing and providing transportation and food for the campaign in exchange for 85,000 gold marks, influenced the course of the campaign and directed it to Constantinople intentionally. Because the crusaders did not save the agreed amount. The campaign resulted in the sabotage and destruction of Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine state and the center of ancient Greek culture, and the papacy did not take effective measures towards this event. This campaign represented the decline of the Crusades, which later needed a convincing justification, after it was a divine order in the name of the Church. It took place around the year 1212 and this movement was similar to the first poor campaign before 1096 AD. Historians disagree about it because there is little written about it. Some historians believe that these two campaigns were nothing but groups of serfs and the poor who resented the failure of the previous campaigns led by the masters, and that calling them the childish campaign or the campaign of children came as a pictorial metaphor for these crowds. It was not related to the fact that the participants in it were children. But it is a verbal depiction that later became an illusion. Some historians believe that it was two campaigns in which large numbers of children participated, although not limited to them. Many of the participants died due to hunger and harsh conditions, and the crowd dispersed, and some of them boarded ships, and fell into the hands of pirates and were sold as slaves in slave markets. The participants in either campaign did not reach the Holy Land. Pope Innocent III sought to start a new crusade in 1213. He began a preaching campaign that lasted until the convening of the Fourth Latin Council in 1215, which took a series of measures related to organizing the Crusades. Hungarian and South German forces, led by Andaris II, and Austrian troops moved. And I got to Acre. It stopped there until German and Dutch forces joined it. So they headed to the city of Damietta in the northeast of the Delta in Egypt, on the Nile. They captured it in 1219. Under the urging of the Deputy Pope Honorius III and the Apostolic Leader Pelagius, the attack continued towards Mansoura. And at that particular time the Nile began to flood. And the Egyptians opened the dam on the river. And the Muslims cut off the path of retreating against the Crusaders. The Muslim Crusaders were surrounded in large numbers. Hundreds of people drowned in the flood waters. The peace was signed on August 30, 1221 for a period of 8 years, and the Crusaders had to leave Damietta, and they carried out that in early September of the same year, and the Fifth Crusade was a complete failure. It was led by the German Emperor Frederick II Hohenstaufen, who wanted to fulfill his purposes without pulling his sword from its sheath in the summer of 1228, and this campaign did not gain the papal blessing, but rather deprived the emperor of the church for his delay in carrying out his vow to take the cross. Frederick negotiated with the Sultan Al-Kamil, which resulted in a 10-year peace in February 1229 in exchange for the Sultan, with the exception of the Haram area, Bethlehem, Nazareth, and part of the district of Sidon and Toron (now Tibnin) and the first campaign that did not bless the launch of the papacy. The defeat of the Crusaders' tribes in 1244 and their complete loss of Jerusalem led to the arrangement of the Seventh Crusade, so the French King Louis IX led it to Egypt and the campaign continued between 1248 and 1254, so they controlled in the beginning Damietta and then Mansoura, but the Muslims, led by the great King Turan Shah, succeeded In destroying their forces and in confining their remnants in Mansoura until they surrendered, and Louis was captured until he was ransomed in 1250, then he returned to Acre and stayed there for 4 years before returning to France in the absence of Hanin. Louis IX of France launched this campaign in 1270 after about 3 years of delay, and it was carried out by a few French barons and knights, as the apparent failure of the campaigns and the decline of their reputation repelled them from it, so that the historian of Louis IX's biography who accompanied him in his previous campaign He refused to join him this time, and this historian narrates that the news of the new campaign was very surprising for him personally and for other people close to the king, and that he astonished the barons, and the opposition was almost unanimous and the king was forced to buy the enthusiasm of the masters with money, and he vowed with the king the Crusader vow for his three sons And some of the king’s other followers, and it was agreed that the campaign would be directed towards Tunisia. Negotiations began with Al-Mustansir, Prince of Tunisia, and when the Crusaders descended in Tunisia, negotiations reached a dead end, and then Charles I, Count of Anjou, the younger brother of Louis and the king of the Kingdom of Naples joined. And they seized the ancient castle of Carthage, but an epidemic was born in the ranks of the knights, and the king and the accompanying royal family died with the exception of Philip, the eldest son of the king who was healed, and on the same day of the king’s death, August 25, 1270, his brother Charles I arrived, and his forces fought with Louis’s forces led by his successor. Philip had a few successful battles against the forces of the Emir of Tunisia, and on the first of November 1270, a peace treaty was signed with Al-Mustansir, obliging him to pay a double tax to the king of the Sicilians, as well as reciprocal commercial rights, and 17 days after the signing, the Crusaders boarded ships and left Tunisia. Other non-major crusades took place, including: in the fourteenth century there were more than 50 campaigns against the Prussians of the Hadeniches and the city of Letawar organized by the rulers in the regions of Germany, and in the fifteenth century there were 4 crusades against the Czechs, and from 1443 to 1444 the last crusade took place against Ottoman Empire . The Crusades had a great influence on Europe in the Middle Ages, at a time when the great majority of the continent was united under a strong papal banner, but by the fourteenth century AD, the ancient principle of Christianity had disintegrated, and the development of central bureaucracies that would later shape the modern nation-state in England began. France, Germany and others. The influence of Europeans with the Arab and Islamic civilization was great during the period of the Crusades, but many historians believe that the greatest influence and transmission of medical, architectural and other scientific knowledge had occurred in areas of cultural and commercial exchange that were at peace with the Islamic states, such as the Norman state in southern Italy and regions The Arab-Islamic overlap with Europe in Andalusia and the cities of commercial prosperity in the Mediterranean basin, such as Venice, Genoa and Alexandria, but there is no doubt that the Europeans were influenced by the Arabs during the Crusades as well, so the construction of European castles was developing into huge stone buildings as are the castles in the East instead of the simple wooden buildings that In the past, the Crusades also contributed to the creation of cities-states in Italy that benefited from the start from trade relations and cultural exchanges with the Crusader kingdoms and Islamic cities. The Crusades had bloody effects. In addition to the bloodshed in the wars in the East, minorities of non-believers were suffering from both problems. The Albigensian heretics in southern France and the Jews in Germany and Hungary were subjected to massacres as "infidels" or "killers of Christ", and this led to the development The racial discrimination between the peoples of Europe, which was the bloc of Jews in Europe and isolated them from its consequences, which later inspired Nazi and fascist thought in the teenage period of nation-states in Europe. Muslims see the Crusades as being barbaric wars in which the Christian Crusaders practiced the most horrific bloody massacres in the name of Christianity, so they killed children, women, and elders, and split the stomachs of pregnant women and destroyed plows and offspring, so God tasted them at the hands of his Muslim servants defeat and humiliation, and Muslims see in figures such as righteousness Religion and Zahir Baybars are liberated heroes, and the Europeans also see the characters participating in the Crusades as adventurous heroes surrounded by an aura of holiness. Louis IX is considered a saint and represents the image of the pure believer in France, and Richard the Lionheart is a typical Crusader king, and so is Frederick Barbarossa in German culture. The term crusade is viewed positively in many Western cultures as a campaign for good or for a supreme goal, and the term is sometimes spread beyond the religious framework. Phrases such as “so-and-so started a crusade to feed the hungry,” as the term was used by US President George Bush To describe what he called the war on terrorism on September 16, 2001 in the controversial phrase, "This crusade, this war on terrorism is going to take a while." That is, "This Crusade, this war on terror will take time."