Damascus is the Syrian capital and it is the oldest inhabited city in the world and the oldest capital in history. It occupied a prominent position in the field of science, culture, politics, arts and literature during the third millennium BC. It was a capital in many stages and civilizations in its long history and became the capital of the Umayyad state, the largest Islamic state in history. The year 661 during the reign of the Umayyads. It is known that at the end of the second millennium BC, the Aramean leader Rizon established his kingdom in Damascus and it was his capital. The population of Damascus is about 5 million, according to the 2004 census. The population of Damascus consists primarily of Arabs, then Turkish Kurds, Armenians, Assyrians and Circassians. Part of the ancient city is located on the slopes of Mount Qassioun and the largest part of the extension of Damascus, including the old city of Damascus, is located on the southern bank of the Barada River, while modern neighborhoods spread and extend on the northern and western banks and in all directions. The city of Damascus is the heart of the Damascus governorate, which is surrounded by the orchards of Ghouta, Damascus, Jabal Qassioun and the Damascus hill. Damascus is the historical city, the gateway to history. It has come across the most important civilizations and the most important celebrities of history in science, literature, poetry, thought, industry, culture, astronomy, clerics, jurisprudence, Islamic and Christian religious sciences, medicine, pharmacy and others, in addition to kings, leaders, princes and sultans, have a role, centers, and historical schools of knowledge intended for every researcher of science. And knowledge in different eras. Damascus is the capital of culture through a long history full of creativity, in which many cultural events and activities are held and spread in many regions and neighborhoods of the city, local cultural centers in addition to international cultural centers such as the French Cultural Center, the Spanish Cultural Center, the Russian Cultural Center, the German Cultural Center ... and others There are many theaters, cinemas and specialized museums, including the Museum of Arabic Calligraphy, the Museum of Medicine and Science for the Arabs, the Historical Museum of Damascus, the Museum of Folk Traditions, the National Museum of Damascus and other museums, and there is an important cultural landmark of the city, which is the Assad House for Culture, the Syrian Opera House and a number of cultural attractions. Damascus is a Syrian cultural heritage that is very rich in data in the fields of culture, literature, poetry, science, music and art, which makes it always the capital of culture, and Damascus was chosen - the capital of Arab culture in 2008. Damascus dates back to nine thousand years BC or more, and discoveries and excavations in many sites in the city and its environs have indicated, including the site of Tel Ash, and the researchers state that it is the oldest city and capital in history. It was a capital since the dawn of history and for several civilizations in different historical periods. Medina There are many historical narratives that differed in determining the meaning of its name, and it has many narratives, and it is more likely, as one of the narratives says that it is a word indicating acceleration, and in the novel "Damascus", that is, speeded up, due to the fact that this city was built quickly at the dawn of history and another narration that it was called Sham Ratio To Sam bin Noah. In some accounts, it says that it was named so because it has ancient Assyrian origins, meaning a prosperous or prosperous land, and many narrations revolve around the name of the oldest city in the world. Among the names of the city of Damascus: Hebron - Bit Ramon - Demetrias - Jalaq - Durrat al-Sharq - Shama al-Dunya - Sham Sharif - Kinanat Allah - Damska - Al-Fayhaa - Timashki - Damas - Dimaskus - Al-Dar Al-Masqia - Jasmine City - Al-Sham. Damascus is the oldest capital in the world and one of the gates of history, and the oldest inhabited city in the world as well. It has lived through all civilizations since the beginning of human civilization history and was mentioned in most of the manuscripts of ancient civilizations, Egyptian manuscripts dating back to the fifteenth century BC, and Aramaic, Assyrian, Akkadian, Hittite, Babylonian, Persian and Phoenician documents. Romanian, Greek and others. The name Damascus was mentioned and the city was mentioned by its names in all ancient civilizations, and it was mentioned in the tablets of Thutmose III, Pharaoh of Egypt, with the word (Temasek). It was mentioned in the Tal Amarna Tablets (Timashki), and in the Assyrian texts the name appeared (Da Mash Qaa), and in the Aramaic texts the name (Darmesk) was mentioned, and perhaps the word means irrigated land, and it was mentioned in the different Babylonian, Phoenician, Roman, Greek, Persian and Aramaic civilizations. On it is the name (Al-Faiha), (Jalaq) and (Al-Sham), and it is mentioned that the oldest mention of the city of Damascus in the manuscripts of the Syrian Kingdom of Mari. The ancient city of Damascus (a history in which history is linked) is ancient with the age of humanity and the capital of many kingdoms, civilizations, empires and states throughout history and a metropolis existing since the earliest times. All civilizations that established in the East and the most important empires in the West passed through it and knew it. They were home to the Aramaeans in the late second millennium before Birth, successive rule by the Assyrians, Chaldeans, Romans and Persians, and it fell in the hands of Alexander the Great in 333 BC. M . After his death, Damascus became part of the Seleucid kingdom. It was occupied by the Roman Emperor Pompey the Great in 64 BC. AD and became one of the most important cities in the Roman era. Christianity entered Damascus in the early years of the spread of Christianity, and later it became a Christian center, no matter how the world was illuminated by civilization, and from where the saints and apostles set out to spread and preach the Christian religion, including Saint Paul. The history of Damascus has been associated with the Greek world for a period of about ten centuries, during which the city knew the flourishing of Hellenistic civilization, where the elements of ancient Greek culture and civilization blended with the eastern Syrian civilization and its culture, as well as with all civilizations that passed in the city in ancient times. In the seventh century, after the Islamic conquest of the city, the city of Damascus became the most important Islamic city, a beacon for science and literature, a reference and a home for leaders, scholars, thinkers and famous people. And Andalusia to the west. The palaces of the caliphs rose in the Umayyad capital and the area of ??construction expanded in it, and one of its most important buildings in that era was the great Bani Umayyad Mosque, which was built during the reign of Caliph Al-Walid bin Abdul Malik, the place of the Damascene Jupiter temple, which is the edifice that remains one of the most beautiful Arab and Islamic buildings in the world. The Umayyad Mosque consists of a large hall for prayer and a large external courtyard. The internal prayer hall consists of three parallel galleries separated by symmetrical arches raised on ancient marble columns dating back to the ages preceding the Umayyad era. This mosque has three minarets dating back to three different periods, the first is in the middle of the northern wall and is known as the Minaret of the Bride, and it is the oldest minaret in the history of Islam, the second is on the eastern side and is known as the Minaret of Jesus in relation to Jesus bin Maryam, and the third is in the western side and is known as the Minaret of Qaitbay, relative to Qaitbay the Mamluk Sultan. In Damascus, monuments and ruins in every corner of it, including the straight street mentioned in the Bible, and Islamic and Christian sanctities. In the eighth century, the city of Damascus was on the throne of cities, a lighthouse and an important cultural center. The Abbasids rose up and took Baghdad as their capital, and their armies entered the capital, Damascus, the most important metropolis at that time, to eliminate their opponents from the Umayyad men, at the end of the Umayyad era, and in a time of weakness and weakness. Abbasid authority, Damascus was associated with the Tulunid state before it was associated with the Fatimids, and during that period it was subjected to the invasions of the Carmatians who occupied it several times, which caused a lot of devastation and destruction in it, after the Fatimids, the Seljuks extended their authority over Damascus and ruled the Atabegs in an independent form and regained its throne as a center and capital Civilized. Moin al-Din Anar resisted and fought the Crusaders and the Crusaders, and repelled the siege imposed by their forces in the Daraya region near Damascus, defended the city and preserved its independence, followed by King Nur al-Din Mahmoud Zangi and took Damascus as his capital, and Damascus became the capital of the Ayyubids and their starting point for the liberation of all Islamic countries. From Damascus, Salah al-Din al-Ayyubi set out to unite the East and extend his influence to Egypt with the leader Asad al-Din Shirkuh, who was sent by King Nur al-Din Zangi from Damascus to confront the Crusaders and unify the Islamic countries along the Syrian Levantine coast and the country of Egypt, and the city was an important presence in the Fatimid era and the death of the Fatimid Caliph al-Adid religion Allah the Fatimid in the year 1171, after a period of stagnation, Damascus regained its luster and occupied the center stage in all cultural, political, military, literary and scientific fields in the Arab East. The most important features of that period are Al-Bimaristan Al-Nuri, which is today the Museum of Medicine and Science for the Arabs and the Museum of Arabic Calligraphy, where the most beautiful examples of lines that were used for the first time during the rule of Nur al-Din are displayed. Also, the Hammam Nur al-Din al-Shahid in al-Buzuriyya, which is the oldest of many Damascus baths, and is still operating today. The Nuri school also stands out, where the great ruler lies in his soil in the midst of a square hall whose decoration is limited to the Qur’an verse: (Az-Zumar 73). Also among the landmarks of Damascus is its castle with four gates, which many rulers have taken as their residence: Nur al-Din Zangi, Salah al-Din al-Ayyubi, al-Malik al-Zahir Baybars and other leaders, celebrities and scholars. The governorate of Damascus was one of the largest and most important of the Mamluk provinces, as it was known as the "Niyabat al-Sham". Its borders extended to the Euphrates and Rastan in the east and north, to the Mediterranean in the west, and to Gaza and Karak in the south. During the reign of Sultan Zahir Baybars and Sultan Qalawun, the city witnessed a great urban movement, and a large number of mosques and schools were built in it. That era ended with the entry of Tamerlane's forces and the destruction they carried on the Islamic cities, including Damascus. However, this disaster did not prevent Damascus from rising again, so the urbanization, building and construction movement returned, and industrial, commercial, cultural and scientific activity flourished in it, at a time when the conflict between the conflicting factions over governance intensified during the last Mamluk era. Following the defeat of the Mamluks in the Battle of Marj Dabiq in 1516, Syria turned into part of the vast Ottoman Empire and Damascus became one of the largest and most important cities in the Ottoman Empire, and the most important after Istanbul. The Ottoman rulers attached great importance to Damascus as the most important city in the Islamic world and called it “Sham Sharif.” The city preserved its commercial, industrial and cultural center in the East, and it was also a stopover for the thousands of pilgrims who set off from it to the Holy Land. The governors were keen to ensure security in the city, and built new edifices in it. They also took care of restoring mosques, baths, and old markets, and taking care of the city. Among the most famous monuments dating back to that long historical period, the Tekkeh Sulaymaniyah and the Mosque bearing the name of Sultan Selim I, and the Tekkeh known as Sulaymaniyah is designed by the architect Sinan, whose name was associated with the construction of the famous monuments of Istanbul. The Ottoman era of civilization ends with the intensification of the "horrors of Westernization". Parallel to the prosperity of Damascus, Aleppo is flourishing, which attracts Western ambassadors, to become the third city in the Ottoman Empire after Istanbul and Damascus. The building movement in the city witnessed its last eastern manifestations in the eighteenth century through what is known as the distinctive Damascene houses, the most famous of which are Khaled Al-Azem House, Ahmad Al-Sebaei House, Nabulsi House, Al-Quwatli House, Dahdah House, and Al-Muallem House. These elegant homes enchanted travelers who flocked to the East, including the Spaniard Badia, who visited Damascus and likened its homes to palaces for its splendor and distinction. During World War I (1914-1918), the two allies Turkey and Germany used Damascus as a base for their military moves. In 1918, the forces of the Arab Revolt liberated Damascus with the help of the British. In March 1920 it was declared the capital of the independent Arab government headed by King Faisal I. However, it fell in the hands of the French forces in July of the same year, to start the era of the French mandate over the city. Between 1925 and 1927, the French were expelled from the city several times by the Syrian rebels during the Great Syrian Revolution, which started from Jabal al-Arab in southern Syria. The French bombed the city with planes, and caused great damage to the old city. After the defeat of France in 1940 at the start of World War II, Syria came under the control of the French Vichy government loyal to the Germans. However, the Free France and British forces occupied it in 1941. In 1946, Syria became completely independent from France, and the city witnessed a boom, prosperity, and a great urban expansion since then, especially after the catastrophe, the setback, the migration and displacement of hundreds of thousands of Syrians from the Golan and Palestinians from Palestine, and the city’s area doubled and expanded in all directions. Damascus includes many ancient and ancient neighborhoods and modern neighborhoods. The most important neighborhoods of Damascus are: Old Damascus, which includes many old neighborhoods that are located within the walls of the old city with its buildings, streets, alleys, churches, mosques, historical schools, castle and famous markets. And from the neighborhoods of Damascus outside the old archaeological wall: Al-Midan neighborhood, Al-Shagour, Al-Qanawat, Al-Salihiya, Al-Mazraa, Al-Muhajireen, Al-Maliki, Rukn Al-Din, Al-Mazzeh, Abu Rummaneh, Kafr Susa, Al-Shaalan, Bab Touma, Al-Baramkeh, Baghdad Street, Al-Qasa, and others. The streets or alleys of old Damascus are characterized by being narrow with close houses, and streets paved with stones in a number of its sections. As you walk through one of them, you feel as if you have entered history. This is an ancient mosque or mosque, and this is an ancient church or a house of government, and this is a Damascene bath or an antique khan or a house for a famous person in history or A shrine for a great companion, a king, a leader, a ruler, a scientist, a jurist, a historical school dating back to ancient times, shops inside an antique market, Roman gates and columns, or the remains of an ancient temple. You are already in history. In Damascus, famous markets, one of the most famous markets in the East, and historic archaeological streets, one of which was mentioned in the New Testament (the Bible) under the name "Straight Street", where St. Paul of Damascus lived, Paul the Apostle, who set out from Damascus to preach the Christian religion in Europe. The Damascene House (or the Arab House as it is called in Syria) is characterized by rooms distributed on two floors surrounding an open space decorated with flowers, roses, plants, the sea and water fountains. The Azem Palace is one of the most important examples of the Damascene house. In Damascus, more than 200 mosques and mosque . The most important of these mosques, and perhaps the most famous landmark of Damascus, is the Great Umayyad Mosque, which is a world-famous symbol of Islam. Other famous mosques in Damascus include the Al-Tekkiya Al-Sulaymaniyah Mosque, built by the Ottoman Sultan Selim I in 1516, the Al-Senaniya Mosque and a number of famous churches such as the Ananias Church, sanctuaries, religious shrines, historical schools, and the center and houses of knowledge dating back to different historical eras. The city of Damascus is considered one of the most important centers of Arab and Islamic culture in the Arab world, with its long history rich in the most important scientific, jurisprudential, cultural and literary references in Arab and Islamic history. Among the cultural facilities in Damascus, the first complex for the Arabic language in the Arab world, science centers, historical schools, the National Museum of Damascus, Damascus University 1923, the Zahiriya Library, the Assad National Library in 1982, the Syrian Opera House, and a number of Arab cultural centers in the Damascus regions. Damascus, as the oldest city and capital in the world, contains many monuments and important landmarks, including: - Throughout its long history, Damascus was an important commercial and industrial center in the region. Since ancient times, it has been famous for its distinguished industries and the skill of its makers, as it is an important industrial center and among the heritage industries: such as the manufacture of fabrics, especially the manufacture of brocade cloth known internationally as Damascus (Damasco), woolen and leather. And the industries of copper and arabesque, and the manufacture of jewelry and shells, and the manufacture of silk, wool and embroidered fabrics. As well as making the famous Damascene sweets and dried fruits that Damascus is famous for all over the world, as well as (Damascene sweets) or Syrian Eastern sweets. Damascus was also famous in the past for making swords, which was known for their quality and unity and was unique to what is known as the Damascene sword. The metal from which these swords are made has baffled scholars and was called the legendary metal. Damascus today was carried out by the most recent advanced industries such as: - Damascus as a large city that clearly expanded and expanded and established new neighborhoods and cities in its surroundings, where modern buildings and buildings and residential towers as in the Mezzeh area - and the Damar area - and the Salhiya - and the Adawi and Abbasin area, the palaces and trade areas and in the residential associations Al-Jadida and others. Damascus, which was on both sides of the Barada River, extended to the top on the slopes of Mount Qassioun and extended east as well as west and extended to the green outskirts of Damascus Ghouta, finding in the vicinity of Old Damascus from all sides the modern residential neighborhoods extended in the mountains surrounding the ancient city. And oversees Mount Qassioun on modern areas of Damascus . Damascus is connected with the cities of Syria and the world through a network of modern roads and highways and the latest tourism transport companies via Pullmans and advanced transportation means, as well as a large network of railways that connect it with various cities and regions of Syria and with Turkey and Europe, and in Damascus Damascus International Airport and Mezzeh Airport that connects Damascus With Syria's domestic airports and with various countries of the world. A recent problem has arisen, which is the existence of random housing areas around the city of Damascus, inhabited mostly by immigrants from the countryside to the city, and this is considered one of the most urban distortions of the oldest city in history. In the city of Damascus there are a number of modern five-star international hotels and tens of dozens of hotels of various degrees and different types and levels of restaurants, cafes and casinos inside and outside the city, and the huge tourist facilities, restaurants, clubs, swimming pools and cafes spread in the well-known tourist hill of Damascus and in the Ghouta areas of Damascus and even resorts. Damascene, famous for its moderate weather and the beauty of its nature, high in the mountains, such as the summer resorts of Wadi Barada, Zabadani and Bludan, where many hotels, complexes and resorts, and in addition to the old markets of Damascus, known and famous for its products, there are many modern high-end markets, malls and malls that sell the latest Syrian and international products in the areas of New Damascus . The city of Damascus is called the city of jasmine. Old Damascus is distinguished by the cultivation of jasmine and it is called the Damascene jasmine and has its fame and memories in every neighborhood and house in the city. Since ancient times, the residents of Damascus have been interested in planting roses and flowers inside their homes greatly, and you find jasmine in interior patios, balconies, pergolas, arches, arches and columns that It is completely covered with the sides of the old lanes and in the gardens. Damascene jasmine is distinguished by its fragrant aroma that gives an impression of comfort, the place increases the joy of the flowers appear as sparkling stars in the midst of greenery and it is a climbing plant, it gives you a sense of innocence and friendliness symbolizing a delicate feeling that rides its aesthetic sensuality in the folds of the place, and the gardens and homes of Damascus are its safe home where it spreads its fragrance and scent Al-Atrah in his city Damascus / Jasmine City. Damascus, the city of Jasmine is the ancient city that gives you a lot, the charm of the place, the gate and entrance to the history of old Damascus in all its details, the Qassioun mountain where restaurants and cafes are spread with a beautiful view of the city, Ghouta singing with its parks and many restaurants, the hill of Damascus is a charming valley between the mountains where it borders the Barada River The historic summer resort railway and the resort road, which are scattered along the hill, clubs and wonderful restaurants.