Enrico Fermi (October 29, 1901 - November 28, 1954), Italian-American physicist, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1938, was among the team that produced the first nuclear reactor and the first atomic bomb, and established the quantum theory. Fermi was a professor of nature at the University of Rome, very enthusiastic to uncover the secrets of the atom, and became famous in the scientific community for his scrutinizing research in which he revealed the element No. 93 in the periodic table of elements that the Russian scientist Mendeleev had arranged in 1869. The element number (92) was uranium, which later became full of ears because it was the cause of ending the war. The field of research that many scientists occupied was to convert one element into another, as it was in previous centuries when they tried to convert lead into gold, so all their attempts were gone. At that time Marie Curie had revealed the radioactive element "radium", and he knew that because of this property, it was considered suitable for transformation into another element. But the University of Rome could not afford to buy one gram of radium, for Fermi to conduct his research. The required (34) thousand dollars, but he did not stop and made his attempts on the radioactive gas radon that consists of the decomposition of radium, which is a gas available from other natural sources, as he placed it inside a test tube with another powder, and found it emits radiation for several days and then stopped, and this was Fermi concluded that his tube works as a gun to release "neutrons" that do not carry any electric charges, and that is why they called them neutrals, and he had to search for other elements on which to continue his experiments. And he found his way after the fluorine element, which gave strong radiation, and turned into Uranium is extruded Day - who carries the number (92) in the table of elements - and found that it gives more than one radioactive element, so he thinks that it has transformed into a new, unknown element. Fermi escaped from the hand of fascism and the tyranny of Nazism to America, so Columbia University in New York seized him, as it had been heard that preceded him as the discoverer of element No. (93). He knew that a single element could have three phenotypes that are homotopic and have other properties, which they called isotopes. It turned out that element (93) is not an analogue of element (92) uranium, and therefore they differentiated them by their atomic weights, so they were (U 234, U 235, U 238). It was found that most of these isotopes are capable of fission when ejected with neutrons, is the isotope (U-235), but the obstacle was that its percentage in uranium ore does not exceed (0.7)%, which impedes its use in its natural state, and this percentage must be raised to about 4% Or 5% in what is known as the "nuclear enrichment or enrichment" process, in order to facilitate the directing of neutrons to it in the machines that do this, which was known since 1929 as the cyclotron, designed by the American Ernst Lawrence, in order for the atoms to gain a wheel Acceleration by centrifugal forces in helical accelerator tracks. But the exigencies of the war were not suited to the United States of America to build an accelerator, nor did it have sufficient uranium ore. But because the matter became auspicious of the imminence of success, after Fermi suggested the possibility of dispensing with the molar accelerator with what he called "pile", a fleet of aircraft transported sufficient quantities of uranium ore from Canada and the Belgian Congo (now Zaire), and placed at the disposal of Fermi, who initiated With his colleague, Hungarian immigrant Szilard, in building an experimental rubble as a substitute for a molar accelerator. The clever idea of ??the rubble was the lifebuoy that saved Fermi's research, as he and his colleague laid layers of uranium on top of each other so that other layers of graphite interspersed them to slow down the speed of neutron release when uranium atoms split. But this was nothing more than a laboratory division, while Fermi's ambition aims to make it a sequential division in succession, to achieve what Einstein said about the release of energy from matter in 1905, in what was known as the special theory of relativity. This approach was corroborated by the news that Hitler issued orders to all scientists to work in the division of the atom for use in war. Fermi traveled to Washington, DC, in an attempt to convince any of the officials of the feasibility of adopting the idea that detonating a quantity of uranium could be thousands of times more powerful than any other detonator. And his thinking guided him with his Hungarian colleague that the most appropriate person to ring the alarm bell for officials is Einstein himself, given his scientific standing and his wide connections, as well as that he is aware of what was going on in Germany of research in the same field. So Fermi prepared a letter urging US President Franklin Roosevelt to adopt the research of the atom bombing and the critical stage it had reached, and present it to him, Einstein signed the letter in August 1939, after adding a clever paragraph to it, noting that the Germans had stopped selling uranium to other countries, an indication of the progress of their research on the atom, and he concluded the letter by saying, “For the first time in history, man will use energy that does not come from the sun ". Immediately President Roosevelt decided to form the "uranium affairs" committee, after which atomic research in the United States took a new path, and he mobilized the group of scientists who left Europe to escape the Nazi dictatorship, to complete their research, with the intensive support of the American authorities. These included: Otto Hahn of Germany, Niles Bohr the Danish, James Chadwick of Britain, Otto Frisch and Anderson of Switzerland, Emilio Segre of Italy, Irene Julio of France and Liz Meitner of Austria. Each of them has a long history of research in chemistry and atomic nature, but the most enthusiastic of them was "Fermi" because he was close to dividing the atom by the idea of ??rubble. On December 7, 1941, a radical shift occurred in the course of the war, when Japan bombed the US port of Pearl Harbor without warning, and in a successful surprise operation, it ended with the destruction of the bulk of the fleet's pieces lying in the waters of the Pacific Ocean. This was like a fatal blow to America's prestige, whose role was limited to supporting the Allies, and the inevitable result was that America declared war on Japan, so Germany and Italy hastened to declare war on it. As a result, the race intensified between the two fighting fronts, to reach the secrets of the atomic weapon, but the United States of America had come a long way. The starting point for the Uranium Research Committee was the attempt to destroy uranium-235 atoms. In addition, in 1941 the American scientist Edwin Macmillan succeeded in creating the uranium isotope "U-239", which ended after a series of radioactive reactions to become plutonium 239, and the possibility of splitting its atoms was confirmed if Threw neutrons at slow speeds, the glimmer of hope for a weapon that could turn the tide of war. Therefore, the US government took a decision that atomic research should be kept secret, and formed a military committee headed by General Leslie Groves L. Groves for organizing it and ensuring its confidentiality, and the committee took the name Codia, which is the Manhattan Project. The Military Committee has set several main goals in front of it to achieve its mission, including the concentration of scientific research in one university, rather than its multiplicity, and it has chosen the University of Chicago in which all European and American scientists will gather to continue their research on the use of energy from uranium atoms. At the same time camouflaging their mission, so that thousands of students and professors would not disclose it, and working to provide uranium ore from its natural sources in Canada and the Congo, to collect enough quantities to continue research, as well as auxiliary materials such as pure graphite, boron and cadmium, and transfer the laboratories in which the uranium isotope separation processes began. 235, to produce the plutonium needed for the first nuclear chain fission. Immediately, the experimental rubble of "Fermi" was transferred from Columbia University to the University of Chicago, to start its work in a hall that was designated for dance. The laboratories and stores needed to collect uranium, pure graphite and cadmium were also spread around the university. To visualize the excitement of the work, chain fission control was done by attaching cadmium rods inside the uranium and graphite piles to ropes, so that they could be stretched outward or inwardly to control the fission rate. When sounds came from Geiger counters near the rubble, this was a sign of fission and the success of controlling it, although it seemed primitive. This happened less than two months after the start of work, and on December 2, 1942, the desired hope was fulfilled, which was confirmed by the tremendous rise in temperature inside the rubble. This success was the first result of the Manhattan Project. Scientists were overwhelmed with joy. They sent a coded message to the government that read: "The Italian navigator has arrived in the new world." And December 2, 1942 became the real birth, or rather "academic", of the atomic age and the control of scientists over its energy. Immediately, the development of Fermi aggregates began by building a reactor with more precise capabilities. He gave the code name "X-10" (x-10), in which uranium was irradiated or enriched to produce plutonium, and water pumps were equipped to cool the high temperatures that Issued from it. While scientists began their work at the University of Chicago, General Groves bought three large areas in three different states far from urbanization, and proceeded to establish and equip secret cities, and lay down the necessary plans to provide the necessary means of work, subsistence, concealment, insurance and entertainment. The first of these cities was in the state of Tennessee near a village called Oak Ridge in the central United States, and a group of necessary factories were built around it under the fictitious name: "Clinton Engineering Co.", and its mission was to separate uranium 235 from uranium 238 by the process of enrichment. . To visualize the enormity of the performance of these factories, it should be noted that one of them cost the manufacture of a large magnet, whose weight is comparable to the weight of a large ship, and the electrical energy used by another factory was equivalent to the energy consumed by the whole of New York City, and it was considered the largest American factories as a whole. The American scientist "Lawrence" continued working in these factories until the necessary amount of uranium-235 was available, by separating it from uranium-238 with the degree of enrichment suitable for the manufacture of an atomic bomb. The second secret city in Washington state was also established next to the Columbia River, in an area with only two small villages. In the first village, a rubble of three huge piles was built to convert uranium-235 into plutonium. Whereas, in the second village, a large camp was established with a capacity of sixty thousand workers and their families, under the fictitious name of "Hanford Engineering Company". This large crowd worked under strict security measures. As soon as the construction of the huge rubble was completed, the camp of workers was evacuated to protect them from radiation. For the same reason, the rubble was surrounded by thick concrete walls, lined with steel sheets, to prevent radiation from escaping outside. This was the first use of radiation shielding because it became different from the small experimental rubble in Chicago. Fission was not allowed to complete in the rubble and stopped by pushing the rods of cadmium to control as soon as evidence of fission success appeared. The three piles of rubble were also standing next to a river, and large pumps were installed to draw water from it, to cool the piles of rubble, then divert the water to flow after cooling to the depressions surrounding the area to become artificial lakes. As for the third secret cities, they were completed in a mountainous area far from urbanization in northern New Mexico, and the nearest village to it was located 80 kilometers away, and the necessary buildings were prepared for the establishment of a group of scientists in a site called Los Alamos, and the facilities were painted green in order not to separate them The planes were removed from the surrounding grasses, and strict security measures were imposed on them over a period of two and a half years, where the stars of the scientists gathered and one of them was thrown. The gathering of these exceptional minds, in "Los Alamos", was an indication that the American theater had become prepared to manufacture the first atomic bomb, by integrating work with what was done in other secret cities. With the success of separating uranium-235, establishing the three craters, and producing a sufficient amount of plutonium, the remaining task became the preparation for the first atomic explosion experiment, the culmination of extraordinary efforts that lasted over six years, and spent more than two billion dollars on it. It was necessary to move away from "Los Alamos" a distance of about 350 kilometers, in a place known as the Amjordo Desert, where a high steel tower was erected and equipped with equipment to raise the atomic bomb to its summit, and the experimental bomb contained one kilogram of uranium-235. At dawn on July 16, 1945, the bomb was dropped from the tower, and the energy was released after a fraction of a second. Within moments the tower disappeared, with a frightening roar of an explosion, and a light brighter than the sun. Half a minute later, a storm blew up, displacing the tops of neighboring mountains, while a dense cloud rose to a height of 12 km. The explosion left a gap in the desert, about a kilometer in diameter, and large areas of sand turned into glass, and the force of the explosion was estimated to be equivalent to the detonation of (20,000) tons of (NTT). The scientists who were watching the explosion from their remote camp were dazzled, and most of them expressed that they did not expect the energy generated to be this strong, and for its results to be this ugly, and they made sure that humanity entered a new era, and immediately the US government commissioned a number of military personnel to prepare to direct A retaliatory strike against Japan, in response to the "Pearl Harbor" massacre. On July 26, 1945, America issued an ultimatum to Japan that it would surrender within two days, and its prime minister rejected this request, and the response came, and at 8:15 in the morning on August 6, 1945, ten days after the warning to surrender, the world woke up to the disaster of the first atomic bomb detonation Which was carried by a USAF B-29 bombers and dropped over the Japanese city of Hiroshima. It was only three days before the second bomb was thrown over the city of Nagasaki, and its disasters were more severe and more horrific, and Japan immediately announced its surrender. Al-Arabi Magazine November 2006 Issue As per Wikipedia license: Transfer and Quote Permits