Football is a team sport. The soccer team includes 11 players in addition to five players in reserve. It is considered the most popular sport in the world. It is not known precisely the history of football, nor how it began or who started it, but the Chinese had a game called Kuju, modern football that developed and originated in Britain. The British wanted to change violent rugby as an official sport in British schools to an organized sport that did not contain violence as rugby does. The new sport continued to play without formal laws until some teachers and school leaders in the nineteenth century AD wrote laws and provisions in order to allow football to be played between different schools. The current laws of the game are directly dependent on efforts made in the mid-nineteenth century to unify the many rules of football that were practiced in private schools in England. Agreement on what is known as the Cambridge Footballer Rules. During the 1850s, many un-school clubs were formed throughout the English-speaking world. Everyone plays football according to their own rules, which are not very different from each other. Among the most prominent of these laws are the laws established by the Sheffield Football Club, which was founded by former Harrow students in 1857, and which led to the formation of the Sheffield Football Association (Sheffield FA). In 1867, the first governing body specialized in the sport of football was formed in England. In 1862 John Challers Thring of the Abingham School devised a set of football rules that influenced the modern rules of the game. These efforts ultimately contributed to the formation of the English Football Association in 1863 AD, which held a meeting for the first time on the evening of October 26, 1863, in London. The only school that had representatives at the meeting was the Carterhouse School. After this meeting, more than five other meetings took place between October and December, resulting in the first set of football rules. At the last meeting, the General Secretary of the English Football Association, who was representing Blackheath Rugby, withdrew his club from the Football Association after the association approved the removal of two rules from the rules of football: the first is to allow the ball to run using hands, and the second is to block the opponent (as he does in Rugby). The rest of the English rugby clubs did not follow the Football Association, but instead, in 1871 AD they formed another association, the Rugby Football Association. The remaining eleven clubs under the responsibility of Mr. Ebenezer Cobb-Morley continued to ratify the original 14 rules of the game of football. Despite this, Sheffield United Football Club continued to play the game by their own rules until the 1870s. The Laws of the Game today are designated by IFAB, which is an acronym for International Football Association Board. The board was established in 1882 after meeting the Football Association in Manchester, the Football Association in Scotland, the Football Association in Wales, and the Football Association in Ireland. And the International Football Association, a global organization founded in Paris in 1904, they stated that they would abide by the rules codified by the IFAB. Due to the great popularity of this sport, FIFA joined IFAB in 1913. Today the council consists of 4 representatives from FIFA and one representative from each of the four British organizations. Football is one of the most popular sports in the world and the oldest known. The FIFA World Cup is the largest international forum in the field of this sport, and every country in the world aspires to win it. It is a sport in which two teams compete in a field with a grass floor (natural or artificial grass) on both sides of the two goals, and the idea in football is to try to deposit the ball in the opponent's goal, often using the legs and the head, as only the goalkeeper is allowed to use the hands. Each team consists of 11 players. During official matches, there will be a referee, two assistants on the sides of the stadium, and a fourth referee. Football is played at a professional level all over the world, and thousands of its fans go to the stadiums to cheer on their favorite teams, while millions of people watch the sport on TV. Too many people also play football at less professional levels. It is noteworthy that the final match of the 2002 FIFA World Cup was watched by more than one billion and eight hundred million people around the world, which is approximately 28% of the global population. Football is governed by the International Football Association Federation - FIFA - which regulates this game and its laws around the world. According to statistics announced by FIFA in the spring of 2001, more than 240 million people play football regularly in more than 200 countries all over the world. Many football tournaments are held, the most important of which is the World Cup, which is held every four years, then the European Nations Cup, the European Champions League, and there is also the African Nations Championship, the Asian Nations Championship, the Copa America, the World Cup for youth under 20 years and others. 1 The referee declares that he has been obstructed within the penalty area, this shall be considered a "penalty kick" in favor of the team from which a player was obstructed. In cases where the player is obstructed outside the penalty area, it is considered a "free kick". The two halves and the break is called "the middle of the time". The end of the match is known as "the end of time". It is worth noting that the duration of each half is 45 minutes, not the lost time during the original time. The referee is officially responsible for controlling the time in the match. This is part of his mission to preserve the time lost during switching players, injuring a player, warnings, expulsion, or disagreements between players. The referee uses a clock to calculate the lost time, and at the end of the match the referee announces the lost time during the match, so the team is allowed to continue playing (despite the passage of 90 minutes ((the original time of the match)) and they play in addition to that time. 5 minutes or 6 minutes, or maybe less, depending on the lost time announced by the judgment.There is no other judgment that helps the main referee to determine the lost time, but they have hours in their hands, and the main referee may consult them about the decision of the lost time announced by the judge. If they agree with him or not, this will not constitute any order issued by them, as the main referee is the only one authorized to announce the length of lost time. The number of wasted minutes that will be played and players and spectators then view the board. One of the events that declared FIFA is when a goal is scored and the players perform their celebrations on the occasion of the goal. This wasted time is also counted as wasted time by the referee. Some matches (matches in which one of the two teams must be a winner and may not be drawn, such as knockout matches, final matches, and knockout rounds in tournaments) may continue into extra time, which consists of two 15-minute periods each. And that if the sum of goals remains equal. In some competitions, it is permitted to use penalties (officially known in the laws of the game as "kicks from the penalty mark") if the total goals remain equal between the two teams. Taking into account the goals scored in the extra time periods, they are counted in the total goals of the match, unlike the penalty shoot-out, which is used only to issue a decision for the team that will qualify for the next league. These two mini-halves are their goal. If the two teams tie with the goals, the result must be settled, so that two more games are announced. In the late 1990s the IFAB devised ways to finish a match faster without the need for penalties. It has often been viewed as a foul way to end a match. It is the rule of the first goal in the extra match, which is called the "golden goal" or the first goal in the first half of the extra match and which is called the "silver goal" but they were later removed by the IFAB as well. The goal is the golden or silver goal, and the golden goal, if he scored, ends the match, and it is the first team scored by the two teams. Every period of play in football, the kick-off starts with it, which begins with kicking the ball from the center of the field by one of the two teams, and the team that does not start with the starting touch of the ball must He must stay outside the circle in the center of the field, until the ball is touched and moved by players from the first team, then they can move, and for the team that starts touching the ball, its players must be inside the circle. And the period after touching the ball for the first time and until the end of that period, the ball is in a state of play at all times until the time of the match ends, and play with the ball is temporarily stopped in several cases, the most important of which is when the ball goes beyond the borders of the stadium, and there 8 situations that represent the resumption of playing with the ball, and whoever works to stop playing the ball temporarily is the referee using his whistle. There are eight cases of resumption of playing in football with the consideration of the kick-off: the kick-off is at the beginning of the match, and it is from the middle of the field, and is played by the team that wins the lottery, and in the second half is played by the other team. After one of the two teams scores a goal, the other team performs the kick-off. Or the kick-off touch (for example Team 1 has scored a goal on Team 2, the kick-off is performed by Team 2) Law No. 8 When the ball crosses the touch lines (the side lines of the field and not the ones near the goal), the referee decides who will carry out the throw-in. After seeing him the last player to touch the ball before it went beyond the boundaries of the touch line (if one of the players in Team 1 was the last to touch the ball before it went out of the field, then the players of Team 2 gave them the throw-in). Law 15 and there is an important note that the offside law is not taken into account when throwing a call, meaning that the player who has thrown the shot can pass the ball directly to his teammate even if he is an offside and stands behind the defense line when the ball crosses the goal line of course without entering the goal, so a goal throw is calculated, but on condition that The last person to touch the ball is the opposing team (Team 1 attacked the goal of Team 2 and one of the 1 players kicked the ball or removed it from the goal line for some reason, the referee gives Team 2 a goal kick in which the goalkeeper places the ball at a specific point in the area Penalty and kicked one of his players). Law 16 When the ball completely passes the goal line without a goal or the defender has touched it, the attacking team is awarded a corner kick. (If Team 1 attacks Team 2 and the ball crosses the goal line and Team 2 is the last to touch it, then Team 2 is awarded a penalty by awarding Team 1 a corner kick). Law 17 is granted to the opposing team after the other team has committed non-penal fouls, technical infringements, or when play is stopped in order to warn the opponent without a specific error that has occurred. (If a team member from Team 2 blocks a player from Team 1, but in an unclear way, i.e. it is not clear if he has obstructed him legally or not. Then the referee grants Team 1 an indirect free kick that he takes in the place that was blocked. The reason for this kick is a sudden stop with a warning to the player.) Law 13 is awarded to a team that is unlawfully interrupted by a player on the other team. Law 13 If the opposing player is fouled in the other team's penalty area, then the opponent's team that was obstructed is awarded a penalty kick. Law 14 and the penalty kick is executed in the following manner: 1 - The ball is placed at the point specified by the planning of the stadiums and located within the penalty area 2 - The obstructed player or any player from his team stands inside the area directly opposite the goalkeeper 3 - The players of the counted team are not entitled to kick the penalty That they enter the penalty area unless the kick is executed by the player 4 - The player who kicked the penalty has the right to kick the ball directly into the goal or only one of his teammates passes it, provided that the path of the ball does not go backward during the execution. This occurs when the referee declares play is suspended for any reason such as a serious injury to a player, interference by an outside party or the ball becomes unfit for play. Law 8 Khakh Foul occurs when a player commits a specific violation that was listed in the Laws of the Game and that when the ball is in play. Offenses that constitute a mistake are listed in Law 12. Penal fouls, for example in order to control the ball, standing in the face of a player or pushing a player, and the player who did so is punished, and the penalty is to award the team from which a player was obstructed a direct free kick or a penalty kick and it depends on where the player was obstructed Whether it is in or outside the goalkeeper's box. In other violations, the first team is awarded an indirect free kick. Fouls may happen at any time, and they can be committed by both players and substitutes. As for the offenses that constitute misconduct and are included in the list of violations, the definitions are many. They are non-sporting behavior that may violate the spirit of sport, even if they are not listed as specific violations. Misconduct may result in giving the offending player a yellow card (warning) or a red card (ejection from the match), and if the player gets a yellow card the first time and commits a foul again, he will inevitably get a red card next time. . The offside law limits the skills of the attacking players by not staying in the front zone, "in other words closer to the opponent's goal line." It is often assumed that the aim of this law is to prevent the misappropriation of a target. In fact, offside law has similar roots to Rugby Union's offside law. The details and applications of this law are complex, and it often results in disagreements in football matches, and especially disputes abound in the World Cup. A player is considered an offside at the moment when another player passes the ball to him and is nearer to the opponent's players being close to their goal, in other words when the player receiving the ball is ahead of the opponent's players at the moment his teammate passes the ball to him, here the referee raises the offside flag and is done Play resume. The recognized international governing body is FIFA, the international football organization. The foregoing organizations are all associated with FIFA, in addition to being linked to their representatives in the confederations. The Sports Laws were not formulated by FIFA only, but by the Council of International Football Associations. The main global competition in football is the World Cup, which is organized by FIFA. this competition is held once every 4 years . More than 190 countries compete in qualifying tournaments under the supervision of the confederations, that is, each group of countries under the supervision of a special continental federation affiliated with FIFA, and these countries are trying to occupy a place for them in the finals. For example, in Africa, special tournaments are held by the organization responsible for it, which is the Confederation of African Football. For example, teams such as Cameroon and Morocco reach the finals and thus these teams qualify for the World Cup competition to compete with the rest of the teams that qualified from other continents such as the Brazil national football team and the national team. Argentina football team, France national football team, Australian national football team, Russia football team, and others. And in 2006, the number of teams increased to 32 after they were in the 1994 FIFA World Cup, twenty-four teams, and they were competing over a period of four weeks. The next World Cup will be in South Africa in 2010.