Ibn Tulun Mosque is a mosque built by Ahmad Ibn Tulun in 263 AH. Ahmad Ibn Tulun spent 120 thousand dinars in building it, and he was interested in engineering matters in building the mosque. The minaret of the mosque is the oldest minaret in Egypt . Ibn Tulun Mosque is the only mosque in Egypt that predominates the Samarra style, with the listed Malawian minaret. Sultan Lajin introduced some reforms in it, and appointed a group of craftsmen for this, and he also ordered the manufacture of a watch in it, so I made a dome in it with small strands according to the number of hours of day and night and an opening, and if an hour passed, the energy that was for that hour and so on, then returned every second time. During the Ayyubid era, the Ibn Tulun Mosque became a university in which the four schools of jurisprudence, as well as hadith and medicine, were taught in addition to teaching orphans. Tulun is one of the Turkish Mamelukes who was gifted by a Bukhara worker to the Ma'amun caliph, and he served in the Abbasid court until he reached the ranks of princes, and his son Ahmad ibn Tulun grew up - the birth of the princes. When Pakbak took over the Emirate of Egypt by the Abbasid Caliph, Ahmed was appointed by him in its mandate, and he presented it to it in the year 254 AH = 868 AD. Then it happened that Egypt took over his father-in-law, Prince Major after the death of Pakbak, and he approved him of her mandate. The mandate of Ibn Tulun over Egypt was at first limited to Fustat only, as for the issue of the Kharaj, it was entrusted to the son of the director, so Ahmed continued to expand his influence until his authority included all of Egypt, and he took over the issue of the Kharaj and expanded to the Levant and Cyrenaica, the founders of the Tulunid state that ruled Egypt from a year ago. 254 to 292 AH = 868 to 905 AD and he died in the year 270 AH = 884 AD. The importance of Ahmed Ibn Tulun comes from the fact that it is the shift that Egypt transferred from a state affiliated to the Abbasid Caliphate to an autonomous state. Ahmad ibn Tulun completed the construction of his palace at the foot of Mokattam and established the square in front of it, and after he finished establishing the city of Al-Qata'i ', he built his mosque on a mountain of Shukr, so he began building it in the year 263 AH = 876/77 AD and completed it in the year 265 AH = 879 AD and this date is written on a marble slab fixed on One of the shoulders of the qibla corridor. The mosque, although it was the third mosque that was established in Egypt, is considered the oldest mosque that preserved its layout and many of its original architectural details, as the first of these mosques is the Amr Mosque, which was built in the year 21 AH = 642 AD, and no trace of its old construction remains, and the second of them is the Al-Askar Mosque that built In the year 169 AH = 785/86 AD, it had disappeared with the end of the military. Repairs have taken place in this mosque several times, and the hand of destruction and ruin has been extended to it in different periods of its eras, as is the case with many other mosques. In the year 470 AH = 1077/78 CE, Badr al-Jamali, the minister of the Fatimid caliph al-Mustansir, made some repairs in the mosque, and they were placed on a marble slab at the top of one of the gates of the seafront, and the Caliph al-Mustansir ordered the creation of a very elaborate plaster mihrab in the qibla portico, in addition to two other plaster niches, one of which belongs To the Tulunid era, and the second in the Fatimid era, and both of them also have the qibla portico. After Ahmad Ibn Tulun completed the construction of his palace at the foot of Mokattam and established the square in front of it, and after he finished establishing the city of Al-Qata`a, he built his great mosque on a mountain of thankfulness and proceeded to build it in the year 263 AH = 876/77 AD and completed it in the year 265 AH = 879 AD and found this date written on a tablet Marble installed on one of the shoulders of the qibla hallway. The Ibn Tulun Mosque is the third mosque that was established in Egypt, and it is also considered one of the oldest mosque that preserved its layout and many of its original architectural details, and the first mosque established in Egypt is the Mosque of Amr Ibn al-Aas, which was built in the year 21 AH = 642 AD. No trace of its old construction remains, and the second mosque It is the Al-Askar Mosque, which was built in the year 169 AH = 785/86 A.D. It may have disappeared with the demise of the military. The Collector of Al-Sirah Tuluniyah said: As for his desire for the gates of goodness, it was a clear manifestation, including the building of the mosque and the aparastan, then the eye that he built with the Forgiver and built it with a correct intention and a strong desire that it has no equal, and this is why the Madranians worked hard and spent the dangerous money to talk about it, so they were unable to do that because it fell in the place of his neighbors All of them need it, and it is open all day long for one who uncovers his face to take from her, and for whoever has a boy or a maid, and the night is for the poor and needy, it is life and aid. He took advantage of it, taking advantage of it and being sufficient for its interests, and who undertook to Ahmed bin Tulun the construction of this eye, a well-engineered Christian man skilled in it. The prince rides to it the next day, as it was empty and the Christian approached, and he saw a place in it that needed a gear bowl and four bricks, so he hastened to do that, and Ahmed bin Tolon accepted, contemplating the eye, and he appreciated all that he had seen in it, then he came to the place where the gear was short and stood in agreement with it, so the moisture of the lime sank the hand of the Persians in it. So they repented with Ahmed, and because of his ill-thought that this was something he wanted by the Christian, then he ordered it, so the clothes he had on him were parted and five hundred lashes hit him, and he ordered it to the one who applied it, and the poor person expected such a prize of dinars, so a bad agreement was agreed upon him. Ahmad ibn Tulun left and set up the Christian until Ahmad ibn Tulun wanted to build the mosque, so he estimated three hundred pillars, and he was told that what you find or penetrate into churches in the countryside and the loss is ruin, so he can bear that. So he denied it and did not choose it and tormented his heart by thinking about his matter, and the Christian reached the news when it was applied, so he wrote to him: I will build it for you as you like and choose without intentionally except the pillars of the qiblah. He said: When Ahmed bin Tulun built this watering, he told him that it is not permissible for people to drink their water. Muhammad bin Abdullah bin Abdul Hakam al-Faqih said: I was a night in my house when I knocked on one of the servants of Ahmad ibn Tulun and he said to me: The prince invites you I rode in panic, so he turned me off the road, so I said: Where do you go with me? And he said: To the desert when the prince is there. So I became certain of the destruction, and I said to the servant: God God is in me, for I am an old, weak old man, so you know what he wants from me, so have mercy on me. He told me: Beware that you have a say in watering. I walked with him, and behold, with torches in the desert, and Ahmad Ibn Tulun was riding at the watering door with wax between his hands, and I fell and greeted him, and he did not answer me, so I said: O Prince, the Messenger helped me and bothered me and I was thirsty, so the prince wanted me to drink, so he wanted the boys to water me, so I said: I take To myself, I got up while he saw me and drank and drank more until I almost split. Then I said: O Prince, God gave you from the rivers of Paradise. I have been watered and sang, and I do not know what I would like the best water in its sweetness and coolness, or its purity, or the goodness of the watering wind. He said: Then he looked at me and said: I want you for something, and this is not his time, so spend it. So she dismissed. And the servant said to me: I was wounded. I said: May God reward you, so you would have perished. The amount of the expense on this spring in its construction and its exploiting was forty thousand dinars, and Abu Amr al-Kindi sang verses in the book of the princes by Saeed al-Qas al-Qas in the lament of the state of Bani Tulun, including in al-Ain and watering: Ain Mu’in al-Shab, Ain Zakia and Ain Ajaj for narrators and purification, as if the delegations of the Nile in its flanks go And it becomes between a tide to islands and I ark in it, with its specific form from the earth, from a deep belly to a back that passes over all the land of the Forgiver, Sha'ban, the Ahmur, and the Living One of the human tribes, neither the clouds extend it, nor the Nile narrates it, nor the stream running. And the Sharif Muhammad bin Asaad Al-Jawani, the lineage, said in the book of the essence that is mentioned in the mention The tribes and the bellies: Saree, one of the Ash'ariites, they are the son of Saree bin Mata, one of the sons of Al-Ashaar, bin Adad, bin Zaid, bin Yashb, bin Arib bin Zaid bin Kahlan bin Saba bin Yashbab bin Yarub bin Qahtan, and they are the family of Abi Qabib Al-Taba’i who kidnapped today Al-Kom, east of Qanater Saqaya Ahmed Ibn Tulun, known as Afsa al-Kabira, Qarafa. In the year 470 AH = 1077/78 AD, Badr Al-Jamali, Minister of the Fatimid Caliph Al-Mustansir, carried out repairs in the mosque, which were found installed on a marble slab installed above one of the gates of the seafront. The Tulunid era with the construction of the mosque and the second in the Fatimid era, both of which are in the Qibla portico. Sultan Husam al-Din Lajin established in 696 AH = 1296/97 CE with several important reforms: - 1 - The dome erected in the middle of the courtyard, which replaced the dome that the Fatimid caliph Al-Aziz Billah built in 385 AH = 995 AD and the original dome burned down in the year 376 AH = 986 m 2 - Restoration of the current minaret with an external staircase 3 - The wooden minbar 4 - The mosaic and marble cladding of the grand mihrab The base of the dome above this mihrab is a plaster mihrab similar to the mihrab Al-Mustansiri with the shoulder next to it 5 - He made a lot of Fresco windows 6 - A way to build a tribal path, then it was renovated by Qaitbay later, and it was finally restored by the Department of Preservation of Arab Antiquities. In the late twelfth century AH - eighteenth century AD - the whole or part of the mosque was used as a factory for woolen belts, and in the middle of the last century it was a refuge for the elderly. The preservation of Arab antiquities in the year 1882 CE restored it and repaired it in the year 1918 CE by order of King Fuad I to prepare a project to comprehensively reform it and vacate the buildings around it. Forty thousand pounds were therefore spent in evaluating the consequences of its construction, the renewal of its roofs, and the restoration of its whiteness and decoration. The Mosque of Ibn Tulun consists of a length of 138 meters and a width of about 118 meters. It is surrounded on three sides - the marine, the western and the tribal - three increments of width, each of which is 19 meters. The mosque, with these increases, is a square, the length of the side is 162 meters, approximately from an open square, the length of the side is 92 meters. In the center of it is a dome carried on an octagonal neck resting on a square base with four arched openings, and in the middle of it is a basin for ablution. The courtyard is surrounded by four corridors, the largest of which is the qibla corridor. It includes five rows of pointed arches carried on rectangular shoulders. The four corridors are covered by a newly-made wooden ceiling. At the bottom, an old wooden bizar was installed with inscription from the surahs of the Holy Qur’an in an enlarged kufic script. The opposite image is in the waving of the Ibn Tulun mosque and in the middle of the western increase, unique in its kind, which is not similar in the minarets of Cairo. It is most likely that it borrowed its outer staircase from the original lighthouse of the mosque and was built in the style of the Samra minaret. . The windows of the Ibn Tulun Mosque are plaster hollow, of various shapes and different epochs, each of which has a wicker socket. As for the facades, the walls of the increases end with hollow balconies, and each of the doors of the mosque faces a door in the wall of the increase, except for a small door opened in the qibla wall that led to the house of the emirate established by Ahmed bin Toulon, east of the mosque. In the middle of the qibla wall is the large mihrab, which only remains of its original features except its cavity and the marble columns that surround it, and at the top of the part in front of the mihrab, a small dome of wood with its circles, hollow stucco windows decorated with colored glass, and next to the mihrab, the minbar that Sultan Lajin also made and replaced the original minbar, which is made of wood assembled on There are geometric shapes that contain fillings that are decorated with fine, prominent ornaments. This pulpit and renewal have only been filled, so it is considered in terms of age the third and most beautiful of the existing pulpits in Egypt. The most important reform introduced to the mosque is that which was done by Sultan Husam al-Din Lajin in the year 696 AH = 1296/97 CE. He established: The Sultan Lajin has a story narrated by al-Suyuti in his historical book: Hassan The Lecture in Cairo's Egypt News, according to which Lajin was one of the Mamelukes who killed the king Al-Ashraf Khalil bin Qalawun, and then took the Mamluks and allies of Al-Ashraf around the country in search of him to avenge him, so what was a refugee was to take shelter in the lighthouse of this mosque that people had abandoned and turned into a stall for horses and a place for travelers, and vowed to himself if this ordeal passed Peacefully, he will undertake the renewal and reconstruction of the mosque again. The days turn around and he takes over the throne of Egypt, and he is called al-Mansur, so he fulfills his vow, and rebuilds the mosque after its ruin by more than 400 years, so he vowed money, endowments and tiles, built a light, made a book in it to teach children and planted orchards around it and removed the ruin around it, costing huge money. According to Al-Suyuti, in the twelfth century AH - the eighteenth century AD - this mosque was used as a factory for woolen belts, and in the middle of the eighteenth century it was used as a refuge for the elderly. Then came the Arab Antiquities Preservation Committee in the year 1882 AD, and began to repair and restore it, until it was in 1918 AD when King Fuad I ordered to prepare a project to reform it comprehensively, and to vacate the buildings around it, monitoring forty thousand pounds, which was spent on evaluating the consequent construction. The roof was renewed, and its decorations were restored until it was restored and reopened in 2005, as one of the 38 mosques that were restored within the Historic Cairo project, and the Ministry of Culture announced that the restoration of the mosque cost exceeded 12 million pounds. This mosque consists of an open dish, almost equilateral, with a side length of 92 meters, and in the center of it is a dome carried on an octagonal neck, placed on a square base with four arched openings, and in the middle of it is a basin for ablution, and it is noticeable in it that there is a ladder inside the thickness of its sea wall, from which it ascends to the top the neck . The courtyard is surrounded by four colonnades, the largest of which is the qibla hall and has five rows of pointed arches carried on rectangular shoulders, rounded in the form of joined columns, while the other three galleries have only two rows. The four corridors are covered by a newly-made wooden ceiling, which was made in the same style as the old ceiling. At the bottom, the old wood bands were restored, inscribed with Qur’anic verses in an enlarged kufic script. The length of the mosque is 138 meters and its width is approximately 118 meters. It is surrounded on three sides - north, west and south - three increments of approximately 19 meters in width, forming a square with a side length of 162 meters, and the middle of the unique western increase in its kind is the mosque's minaret, which does not There are similar ones in the minarets of Cairo, and it is most likely that they were built similar to the original lighthouse of the mosque, because this lighthouse was built in the Mamluk era as mentioned above, and it may have been built in the style of the Samarra minaret, which is square from the bottom, then cylindrical and ends octagonal topped by a dome and reaches a height of forty meters . The four facades of the mosque are characterized by their simplicity, with no decoration except for a row of hollow stucco windows of various shapes and different eras, which end with exquisite hollow balconies. In front of each of the doors of the mosque, there is a door in the extra-outer wall, in addition to a small door that opened in the qibla wall, and it used to lead to the emirate house that Ahmad ibn Tulun built in the east of the mosque. The qibla wall is in the middle of the large mihrab, which only remains of its original features except its cavity and the marble columns that surround it, and other than that, it is the work of Sultan Lajin, as mentioned above. At the top of the part in front of the mihrab there is a small dome of wood, surrounded by hollow stucco windows filled with colored glass, and next to the mihrab there is a pulpit ordered by Sultan Lajin to work as well, and placed in the place of the original minbar, which is made of wood, and in the form of geometric shapes that are confined between fillings decorated with decorations Prominent, and this pulpit is considered one of the oldest pulpits of Cairo's mosques, and is considered in terms of age the third of the existing pulpits in Egypt: the first of which is the pulpit of the mosque located in the monastery of Saint Catherine in Sinai, and which was established by the best Shahanshah in the days of the Fatimid Caliph, who commanded the rulings of God in the year 500 AH = 1106 AD, and the second is the pulpit of the ancient mosque B. Qus, who commanded his righteous deeds Tala'a in 550 AH = 1155 A.D. As for the many stucco decorations and the decorations that were used in the doors, it is noted that they were very influenced by the Mosque of Samarra, as the Tulunid family began there before establishing its state in Egypt. 1 - The book (The Mosques of Egypt and Their Righteous Saints) - Suad Maher “The Most of the Article was Built upon Him” 2- The Book of Conciliation Plans by Ali Mubarak, Part Four 3- Hassan’s Book of the Lecture in Egypt’s News Cairo - Al-Suyuti 4- The Ministry of Culture Bulletins on the Antiquities of Cairo.