The purified Hussaini kindergarten is located in the center of the city of Karbala, and the history sheets reported that the first who took an interest in the noble tomb were the Banu Asad, who participated with Imam Sajjad (peace be upon him) in burying the pure body of Imam Hussein (peace be upon him), and they set up drawings for his grave, and erected a flag for him that is not studied Its effect. And when Al-Mukhtar bin Abi Ubaid Al-Thaqafi appointed the command to Kufa in the year 65 AH, he built a building over it, and there was a shed on the grave and around it a mosque, and this mosque has two doors, one towards the south and the other towards the east - as the narratives mentioned - then the buildings followed during the time of al-Ma'mun, and the victor who took the shrine with special care And the small preacher, the supporter of the state Albuhi and others who followed them, and the buildings or expansion did not stop in addition to them, maintenance and restoration since then and to this day. This blessed kindergarten includes the tomb of the master of the martyrs Imam Al-Hussein (peace be upon him) and next to it many graves visited: the shrine of Mr. Ibrahim Al-Majab (peace be upon him), the shrine of Habib bin Mazhar Al-Asadi, the tomb of the martyrs of the companions of Al-Hussein (peace be upon him), and Al-Qasim bin Al-Hassan ( peace be upon him ). The current architecture consists of a wide courtyard with an area of ??(15,000 square meters), in the center of which is a sanctuary of (3850 square meters) in which the holy shrine is located, surrounded by galleries of an area of ??(600 square meters), and in front of it is Tarmah. The Holy Husseini scene is surmounted by a towering dome 37 meters high from the ground, which is overlaid from the bottom to the top with pure gold. A mast of pure gold also rises two meters long. The dome is surrounded by two minarets painted with gold, and the number of golden bricks that cover it is (8024) bricks. . The holy shrine, which included in its rest the pure body of Imam Abu Abdullah Al-Hussein (peace be upon him) with his two sons, Ali the Great and Ali the Younger, is located under a box made of wonderful precious wood inlaid with ivory, and surrounded by another glass box, and the box is topped by a window made of pure silver and mosaic. With gold, and on it are writings from the noble Qur’anic verses, exquisitely made inscriptions and decorations, surrounded by the window a large garden whose floor is paved with Italian alabaster, and its walls are covered with a height of two meters with the same alabaster, while the rest of the walls and ceilings are adorned with mirrors that are made with geometric shapes that form a verse of wonderful architecture. Its location is close to the Husseini mausoleum to the east, where the righteous martyrs, who were martyred with Imam Hussain, were martyred in the battle of Taf with his family and companions, while they were buried in one tomb, and he made this shrine a mark of the location of their graves, and they are in the soil in which the tomb of Hussein (peace be upon him) is located. The mausoleum is made of silver, and it has two windows: the first overlooks the inner sanctuary, and their names are written above it, and the second opens a conversation and it overlooks the southern portico to the right from the qibla gate. The Al-Husseini Mosque is surrounded by four corridors, on each side a corridor, the width of one corridor is (5 m), the length of the side of each of the northern and southern corridors is approximately (40 m), and the length of the sides of each of the eastern and western corridors is approximately (45 m). Its floor is all paved with bright white marble, and in the middle of all its walls are pieces of large or small mirrors, and each hallway reaches a height of 12 meters, and each of these corridors has a name of its own, namely: There are eight interior doors to the corridors that lead to the purified presence, which are: As for doors The outer corridors that lead to the courtyard are seven, and they are: This is the place where Imam Hussein (peace be upon him) was slaughtered, and its location is to the southwest of the corridor, and it consists of a private room with a silver door, and its floor is made of clear alabaster, and there is a basement topped by a silver door as well. A window overlooks the saucer from the outside of this room. It is a large building and a wide courtyard surrounding the Holy Shrine, and some call it the mosque, for people to gather in it to hold the five daily prayers and perform special visits in their known seasons. The courtyard from the inside is in the form of a rectangle, but hexagonal in the shape of the Holy Shrine, surrounded by a high wall separating the kindergarten from the outside, and it was decorated with yellow and qashani bricks and the erection of phalanx at the doors. On the upper side, the noble Qur’an verses are written in the splendid Kufic script and on the veined bricks, and from the inside they are distributed by the 65 iwans overlooking the courtyard and surrounding it on all its sides, and in each iwan there is a room decorated with mosaic walls from the outside and the inside. The sacred courtyard has ten doors, each leading to the ring street surrounding the Rawda and the streets branching from it. The many of these doors came in order to reduce the crowding during the seasons of visits, and all the doors are made of teak wood and in exquisite shapes, and they have ceilings covered with qashani, and their annotations include the noble Quranic verses The doors are: This iwan overlooks the Noble courtyard from the south and has a high ceiling, but it is not on one level, as it is high in the middle and low on both sides, and the roof is based on columns of luxurious marble, and the iwan is rectangular in shape with a length of 36 meters and a width of 10 M, and its walls are covered with pure gold, and its sides are decorated with exquisitely carved mosaics, while the rest of the walls are covered with ornate ceramics, and this iwan is separated from the courtyard with a metal clip, and the passage is from both sides to the kindergarten. Its location is on the northern façade of the kindergarten, which is a fortified room that includes gifts of kings, sultans, princes and big personalities from various Islamic countries, and it contains rare artifacts and impressive treasures. It is located to the right at the entrance to the Qibla Gate, and its founding date back to the year 1399 AH / 1979 CE. It includes many printed and manuscript books in addition to the precious manuscript Qur’ans. Talking about the date of the construction of the purified Husseiniya kindergarten as it is now is a great conversation about a long history that extends back to fourteen centuries. Historians have mentioned the construction of the Hussaini kindergarten starting from and from the burial of the pure bodies by members of the Bani Asad clan. Imam Ali bin Al-Hussein Zain Al-Abidin, peace be upon him, said: “God has taken the covenant of people from this nation that you do not know. The pharaohs of this land are well-known in the people of the heavens. They gather these scattered members and the limp bodies and place this kind of flag on the grave of the master of the martyrs. Its impact is not studied and its drawing is not forgiven when the nights pass And days. " When the ruler of Al-Mukhtar bin Abi Ubayd Al-Thaqafi in Kufa in the year 65 AH, demanding revenge of Hussein bin Ali, peace be upon him, and he tracked down the killers of Imam Hussein, peace be upon him, and his honorable companions, and ruled them and then killed them .. After that the shrine of Imam Hussein, peace be upon him, was built in Karbala and a dome was built for him. And the gypsum, and he was the first to be built upon in the days of his command, and there was a shed and a mosque on the grave, and this mosque has two doors, one towards the south and the other towards the east. The east stood at the door and said ...) And he, peace be upon him, said: (Then come out of the shed and stand in front of the graves of the martyrs) and this path is still standing until now, so the side adjacent to the graves of the martyrs to the east, and the shrine of the martyrs is located in the east of the shrine of Hussein, peace be upon him, and his son Ali the eldest on him Peace be upon this. It is known that the shed contained the grave of Ali the Great, peace be upon him as well. That shed and the mosque remained throughout the period of the Umayyad era, the fall of their state 123 AH and the establishment of the state of Banu Abbas. During the reign of Harun al-Rashid al-Abbasi, who was hostile to the Alawites, he sought to demolish those pure Alawite graves, hoping to erase the mention of the family of Muhammad and his family, peace be upon them, whose virtues were superior to the creatures in their lives and after their death. So he sent people that God blessed their hearts and forgot the remembrance of God and lifted the fear of Him from Him, so they came to the Husseini shrine to destroy the beacon of guidance and the beacon of salvation for the nation, so they demolished the mosque in the Haram of Al-Hussein (peace be upon him) and the mosque on the grave of his brother Abbas, peace be upon him, as they destroyed and destroyed all that is in them. Buildings and monuments, and Al-Rasheed ordered them to cut down the Sidra tree that was planted at the grave and the place of the grave, then put Muslim men who prevented people from reaching the holy shrine and the holy shrine until the death of Al-Rasheed in the year 193 A.H. For political reasons, al-Ma'mun al-Abbasid approached the Alawites, as he held the mandate of the covenant of Imam Ali ibn Musa al-Ridha, peace be upon him. He pretended to be close and inclined to the Alawites, as they are entitled to the caliphate, so he assigned the mandate of the covenant to Imam Reza (peace be upon him) and replaced the slogan of the Abbasids with the slogan of the Alawites in the year 193 AH and ordered the construction of the tomb of Hussein, peace be upon him and cleared the way for Alawites and others to travel and visit the graves of the imams, so the Shiites breathed the breeze of freedom and the scent of dignity and tasted a taste of reassurance . During the reign of al-Ma'mun, the noble grave was rebuilt and a lofty building was erected on it that remained in this state until the year 232 AH, where the role of al-Mutawakil al-Abbasi, who was driven by his hatred and his nepotism to the people of the house, peace be upon him, who pushed him, tightened the noose on the Shiites and tightened their scope, as he ordered to follow the Shiites and prevent them from visiting The grave of Hussein, peace be upon him, was not satisfied with placing weapons, watching visitors and chasing them severely, which lasted for fifteen years of his rule, but he ordered the demolition of the tomb of Hussein, peace be upon him during that period four times, and his anguish, ruin, and plowing and running water on the graves. Al-Tabari reported in the incidents of the year 236 AH that al-Mutawakkil ordered the demolition of the grave of al-Husayn, peace be upon him, the demolition of the houses and houses around it, and the plowing, sowing and watering of his grave site, and preventing people from coming to him. He mentioned that the police worker called in the district who we found at his grave after three sent him to Mutabq (which is He was imprisoned under the ground) and people fled and took off from marching to him and plowed that place and planted around it. In a narration that Al-Tusi reported in Al-Amali on the authority of Abdullah bin Daniyah Al-Turi said: I performed Hajj in the year 247 AH. When I was issued from the Hajj to Iraq, I visited the Commander of the Faithful, Ali bin Abi Talib, in a hidden state of The Sultan then went to visit Al-Hussein, peace be upon him, and if he had plowed his land and blew the water in it, and I sent the oxen and the factors in the ground, then with my eyes and my eyes I saw the bulls being driven to the ground, so they drove to them, even if they were adjacent to the grave, turning away from it to the right and the left, then they were struck with sticks. I was not able to visit, so I went to Baghdad and I said: By God, if an illiterate had come *** The son of the daughter of her prophet was killed by an oppressed one, then the sons of his father came to him like him *** This is for your age, his grave is destroyed. Sorry that they did not participate *** in his killing. Baghdad heard the awful, so I said: What Ahh? They said the bird fell by killing al-Mutawakkil. The victor reached the heights of the caliphate and took over the matter of power in the Abbasid state at the end of the year 247 AH, so the Alawites struck the vagina and removed their distress and lifted the barrier from them and ordered the construction of a dome over the grave of Hussein, peace be upon him, focusing on it with a tendency to guide people to the grave, and sympathy to the Alawites and distribute money to them and called for a visit The grave of Hussein, peace be upon him, immigrated to Karbala, a group of them from the children of Imam Musa bin Jaafar, peace be upon him, led by Sayyid Ibrahim al-Mujab bin Muhammad al-Abed bin Imam Musa bin Jaafar, peace be upon him, and the descendants of Muhammad al-Aftas, grandson of al-Husayn the younger son of Imam al-Sajjad, peace be upon him, and the children of Isa bin Zaid the martyr Peace be upon him and they settled there, and this building remained constructed until its fall in 273 AH. During the era of the Abbasid Caliph Al-Mu'tadid. On the 9th of Dhu al-Hijjah 273 AH, the architecture that the victor had built fell on the grave cleansed once. When the visitors were crowded and it seemed that the building had fallen on a visit to Arafah, which is one of the special visits to the Haram al-Husayn (peace be upon him) and there are many people in it, and many people were injured as a result of the fall, the shed was demolished once and a large crowd of visitors escaped, among them Abu Abdullah Muhammad ibn Imran bin al-Hajjaj, one of the faces of the people of Kufa, and he who reported the news. The reason for the fall of the shed is still unknown. Was the accident a fate? Or is there a malicious hand on the part of politics and the ruling authority at that time that played a role in this great calamity? In any case, the accident was painful and terrifying, and at the same time the grave was destroyed and exposed for ten years. Until the minor preacher Muhammad bin Zaid bin al-Hasan Jalib al-Hajjar from the children of al-Hasan al-Sibt took over the Emirate of Tabaristan after the death of his brother, nicknamed the great da'i, then he ordered the construction of the two scenes and the establishment of the appropriate architecture, which are the scene of the Commander of the Faithful in Najaf and the scene of Abu Abdullah al-Hussein, peace be upon him, in Karbala. In the year 183 AH, the date of architecture ranges between 279 - 289 AH. Muhammad bin Zaid visited Karbala and Najaf and sent the materials. And the artifacts, his relationship with the Abbasid Mu'tadid was good and a strong bond with him, so he was able because of him to construct the building on the Two Holy Mosques in al-Ghayri and al-Ha'ir. The rule of Baghdad strengthened the Al-Buwayhi state in the caliphate Al-Taei bin Al-Muti’i Al-Abbasi, and he ordered the construction of the hall known as the Colonnade of Imran bin Shaheen in the shrines of Ghareei and Al-Haeri. It is known today as the hallway of Mr. Ibrahim Al-Majab. In the year 407 AH. A huge fire broke out inside the Holy Kindergarten during the night, and this fire occurred due to the fall of two large candles on the furnishings, as the kindergarten was lit by candles, the fire devoured first the reinforcement and the curtains, then it went beyond the corridors and the sublime dome and only the wall and part of the Haram and Imran Bin Mosque were spared from the fire Shaheen. Al-Hasan bin Al-Mousthaid bin Sahlan undertook the renewal of the building of Al-Ha'ir Al-Husseini after it was set on fire and the dome and the sanctuary were burned in 412 AH. A dome was built in it over the tomb of Al-Hussein, peace be upon him, and repaired and repaired what was destroyed by the fire and ordered the construction of the wall, which is the wall that Ibn Idris mentioned in his book (As-Sirair) when he renewed Al-Ha'ir in 588 AH. Ibn Sahlan renewed the outer wall and re-established architecture on the cleansed grave in a better way than it was before. The traveler Ibn Battuta described this architecture on his trip to Karbala in the year 727 AH and said: Ibn Sahlan was killed in the year 414 AH, and the building he ordered to build remained in al-Ha'ir al-Sharif until his dispute with God the Abbasid in the year 526 AH, when terrorism returned again to the Shiites, and the oppression and restraint on them returned and took over The Abbasid guide on the money, valuables, endowments, and jewelry in the sacred al-Ha'ir coffers, so he spent part of them on his armies and said: “The grave does not need treasury and money.” He was satisfied with this plunder and did not encroach on the perplexed and the immaculate grave. And when he took over the ministry during the reign of the Abbasid Caliph Al-Nasser, Muayad Al-Din Muhammad bin Abdul Karim Al-Kindi, who goes back to Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad Al-Kindi, who restored the sanctuary of Imam Hussein, peace be upon him, in the year 620 AH. He repaired what was destroyed in the architecture of al-Ha'ir, as he covered the walls and the four corridors surrounding the sanctuary with teak wood, put a box on the grave of the same wood, decorated it with brocade and silk eaves, and distributed the many good things to the Alawites and those adjacent to al-Ha'ir. This architecture is considered the seventh according to the author of the book “The City of Al-Hussein, peace be upon him, by Mr. Hassan Al-Kalidar, vol. 1 p. 31, while the eighth is the author of the book on the history of the shrine of Hussein and Al-Abbas (peace be upon him) by Mr. Hadi Tohme, p. 83, considering that it was built by Sultan Moez Al-Din Awais Ibn Sheikh Hassan Al-Jalairi Bin Hussein bin Alya bin Sibt Arun bin Al-Ghaben Hulagu Khan, who in 757 AH took over the authority of Iraq after his brother Sultan Hussein al-Saghir and built the sanctuary of Imam Hussein, peace be upon him, and built a dome over him in the form of a semicircle surrounded - with corridors as it is today, and he began work in the year 767 H . It was completed by his son, Ahmad ibn Uwais Nah, 786 AH, as the one standing at the entrance to the Qibla Gate from the outside would see the mausoleum and the garden clearly and clearly. The front foyer of the kindergarten, which is known as the Iwan of Gold and the Sahn Mosque, was built around the garden in a square shape, and took great care of its decoration of the Haram from the inside and the corridors with mirrors, mosaics, and faience bricks. Sultan Ahmed Al-Jalairi also ordered the minarets to be decorated in yellow made of faience bricks, and the date of construction was written on them, which is 793 AH. . And this architecture has remained on the noble tomb to this day, but restorations continue on the Holy Hussaini Mosque over the successive years. This is witnessing in these days the Holy Husseinian Kindergarten and since the religious authority in Najaf took over the affairs of the holy shrines and its formation of the Board of Directors of the Holy Shrines in the holy city of Karbala, a broad campaign to advance the service reality of the two purified civilizations. More than 50 years, when the work is scheduled to end after a year from now, a new 24-carat gold was used, working on it by a group of Indian experts, and this is being installed by Haji Hassan Al-Mimar, who was working with his father in the first gilding process in the early 1950s From the last century.