The Internet is a system of computer networks that connect computers around the world with a unified protocol, the Internet Protocol. The Internet connects millions of private and public networks in academic, governmental and business institutions, and varies in scope between the local and the global, and is connected to different technologies, such as copper wires, optical fibers, and wireless connections, as these networks differ in Its internal structure is technically and administratively, as each is managed in isolation from the other decentralized and none of them depends on the others in its operation. The Internet today carries a great deal of data and services. Perhaps the most common of these today is super-published text pages on the Web. It also carries other services and applications such as mail, instant communication services, and file transfer protocols. And voice communication and others. Like the booms in the means of communication throughout history, the Internet today has social and cultural effects in all parts of the world, and has led to a change in the traditional concepts of several areas such as work, education, trade and the emergence of another form of the information society. An Internet name in English consists of the prefix inter which means "between" and the word net which means "network", meaning "the internetwork" and the name denotes an Internet structure as an "inter-network" or a network of networks "or, and with this It has become a common mistake in the Arab media to call the "international information network", thinking that the inter in the name is the abbreviation of the English word "international" which means "international", which otherwise implies that the network is an international project. The Internet is a scientific name, and it is sometimes known. The acronym "The Network" corresponds to the common English usage The Net. Unlike what it appears at first glance, the Internet depends on what is known in the science of network design as "simple design", because the Internet does one primary and simple act, which is the delivery of a digital message between two nodes Each of them has a distinct address by means of "storing and passing" between several nodes between the sending node and the receiving node, so that the path that the message will take across the network cannot be predicted in advance, and the message can be divided into parts, each of which takes a different path and arrives in an unpredictable order. Its original arrangement that is on The receiving node can rearrange the message, and it is a class of network protocols known as packet routing. The network (Internet) does not make any prior assumptions about the nature of the message, its content, the purpose of sending it, or how to use it, and it does not try to perform any manipulations on the message or its content other than what is required by it. Sent between the two points. All the apparent "intelligence" displayed by the network is actually in the application layer above the transport layer, and all the added value in the network's work lies on its edges and not in its core, which consists of routers that do not differentiate between messages, whether it is what they carry. A postal message, visual torrent (video) or data for any other application or service that is built over the internet. On top of this data communication infrastructure, many applications are built such as mail, file transfer, video and audio flow, chatting, chatting and many more, and with which any digital data can be transferred. The Internet itself does not contain information. Rather, it is a means of transferring information stored in files or documents on one computer to another. Therefore, it is a common mistake to say that the information was found on the Internet, and it is correct to say that the information was found through the use of the Internet. From the very beginning, the Internet was designed to be disruptive. The most important element is that it is free from a major node or a major place that the lines must pass through. Thus, there are a number of alternative lines when you send your information over the internet and determine the route only when transferring information, depending on the extent of the line vacancy of pressure, and when a line fails, another valid line is used. But this decentralization in the technical aspect has not been followed in the administrative side of the network, the so-called Internet government, ICANN is the body that internationally supervises the issuance of Internet addresses and is indirectly affiliated with the United States of America, and it is the one that manages the main DNS nodes in most global countries. Possible International Research Sites The Internet was a result of the Arpanet Project, launched in 1969, a project of the United States Department of Defense. This project was established in order to connect to the US Army through computer networks and to connect universities and research institutions to make optimal use of the available computational capabilities. On January 1, 1983, the United States Department of Defense replaced the NCP protocol in force in the network and replaced it with the TCP / IP protocol. One of the things that contributed to the growth of the network is linking the National Science Foundation of the United States of America universities to each other, which facilitated the process of communication between university students and the exchange of e-mails and information. By entering the universities to the network, the network began to expand and progress and university students took their information and saw the light. Browser "Mosaique", and researcher "Jopher" and "Archie". Indeed, the giant company "Netscape" is originally from the efforts of university students before it was adopted by the commercial mind and connected to what it turned out later. The engineers who planned the network at the beginning of its era did not have the slightest conception of what the network has become today, and its gigantic success today is due to the decentralization of the network, or in other words, there is no single party that controls the course of affairs about the network. The network is governed by a communication protocol (protocol) that determines the work of this agreement are the "Internet engineers", which is an independent body that studies and decides the types of protocols in force for various network services (HTTP, FTP, IRC) etc. .. Network engineers are one of the factors of the network's success. Whereas, the authority is public and open to all to make an effort. Were it not for the Internet, you would not have been sitting at home and reading this article, and many of the major companies that exist today that rely on providing services on the Internet would not have existed. The Internet was not widely used until the early 1990s, despite the availability of basic applications and guidelines that make the use of the Internet possible and has been around for nearly a decade. On August 6, 1991, at CERN, which is located on the border between France and Switzerland, he published the World Wide Web project, which was invented by the English scientist Tim Berners-Lee in 1989. There, a web browser developed violawww, based on the hypercard. It is followed by the "MOSAIC" web browser. In 1993, at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois, version 1.0 of MOSAIC was released, and by late 1994 there was a noticeable increase in public interest in what had previously been the concern of academics only. By the year 1996, the use of the word network had become common, and thus, this was a reason for confusion in the use of the word Internet as a reference to the World Wide Web. Meanwhile, over the course of the decade, use of the Internet has grown steadily. During the 1990s, it was estimated that the network increased 100% annually, and with a brief period of explosive growth in 1996 and 1997. This growth is often due to the lack of a central administration, which allows the organic growth of the network, as well as due to the open ownership of Internet protocols, which encourage people and companies to develop and sell systems and it also prevents one company from exercising too much control over the network. . The network offers many communication uses to users, including the media, commercial, academic, political, and medical fields ... etc. Indeed, it can be said that all the services provided by the network (the Internet) are communication services. It serves individuals, institutions, and official and civic organizations alike. The communicative uses of the Internet are constantly increasing, and the same old uses are developing and increasing in effectiveness, ease and potential. Email (in English: Electronic Mail, abbreviated to E - Mail) is a term used to send electronic text messages between groups in an analogous way to sending messages and notes before the emergence of the Internet. Even today, it is important to differentiate between Internet e-mail and internal e-mail. Internet e-mail may be transmitted and stored in an unencrypted form on other networks and devices outside the control of both the sender and the receiver. During this period (the transition period) it is possible for the mail's contents to be read and tampered with by a third party, if the mail is of some importance. Internal email systems do not leave the data leaving company or organization networks and are more secure. Lots of people use the terms internet and world wide web (or web only) as the same or the same thing. But in fact the two terms are not synonymous. A network (Internet) is a group of computer networks connected together by copper wires, fiber-optic cables, wireless connections, etc. On the contrary, the Web is a collection of linked documents and resources, linked together by hyperlinks and URLs. In other words, the World Wide Web is one of the services that can be accessed through the Internet, as is email, file sharing, and others. Programs that can access web resources are called the User Agent. In the normal case, web browsers such as Internet Explorer or Firefox log in to web pages and enable the user to navigate from one page to another through hyperlinks. A web page can contain nearly a mixture of computer data including photographs, graphics, audio, text, video, multimedia, and interactive content including games and more. The Internet allows computer users to easily communicate with other computers and stores of information, regardless of their location in the world. This process is known as Remote Access. This can be done without the use of security, encryption or authentication technologies. This encourages new types of domestic work, and the sharing of information in many industries. This is the easiest way in the world in terms of type. Here is the link www. dooori. Com The low cost of communicating via the Internet and exchanging ideas, knowledge, and skills has greatly led to the development of collaborative work and the emergence of collaborative systems. Not only is it possible to communicate cheaply and on a large scale via the Internet, but groups with similar interests are allowed to easily create common sites. An example of this is the free software movement in software development, which produced Linux and GNU from scratch and took charge of developing Mozilla and OpenOffice. org (formerly known as Netscape Hubs and Star Office). Films such as Zeitgeist have had widespread coverage online, while being almost ignored in the mainstream media. Chat via the Internet, whether in the form of IRC or Channels, or via instant messaging allows colleagues to stay in constant contact through a very convenient way that works on their computers all the time. The files are exchanged, whether they contain sound, pictures, or any other type of file, and support joint work among team members. Version control systems allow shared work teams working on groups of documents to collaborate on their work. This avoids accidentally deleting what another colleague has written, and all the members of the cooperating team are able to create the documents and for everyone to add their ideas and add changes. Currently there are other systems in this field such as google calendar, BSCW or Microsoft Share Point system. Sharepo Voice over Internet VOIP relies on transmitting voice over an Internet protocol. This phenomenon began as a selection and utility of IRC chat systems for one-way voice transmission. In recent years, many VoIP systems have spread and have become as easy and comfortable to use as any regular phone. These systems are promising use of the Internet with a much lower cost than a regular phone call, especially over long distances. Still, the sound quality often varies from word to word, and it will take some time for it to become the same quality as conventional phones. VoIP is becoming increasingly popular in the gaming world, as a form of communication between players. One of the most popular systems in the field of voice over the Internet is the Skype system. Feed service is a service that enables you to keep track of what is issued in the sites that you provide first-hand without the need to turn to them to visit them in order to verify if there is new publication on them, and it is not in the way that It was prevalent in the past that does not actually require the site because the user is the one who requests this type of content through feed readers whenever he wants in the same phase of operation that the web browsers operate in, and does not require the disclosure of any amount of personal data on the part of the user of the site, not even The e-mail address, and thus the only control over it is the user, and it cannot be used in a manner that is not acceptable to or imposed on him. In its simplest form, the feed includes a title, a summary of the topic, and a link to the full text of the story on the topic's publisher's website. There are several formats for publishing feeds, including Atom, RSS, and RDF. The Internet has become a wide market for companies. Some large companies have inflated their business by taking advantage of the low cost of advertising and trading via the Internet, which is known as E-Commerce. It is considered the fastest way to spread information to a large number of individuals. As a result, the Internet has revolutionized the shopping world. For example, someone can order a CD online and you will receive it via regular mail within two days, or they can download it directly over the Internet if possible. Also, the Internet has facilitated the process of personal shopping, which allows a company to market a product to a specific person or group of people in a better way than any advertising medium. Examples of personal shopping are online communities that thousands of Internet users enter to advertise themselves and make friends through the Internet. Since the users of these communities are between the ages of 13 and 25 years old, when they advertise themselves, they are thus announcing their hobbies and interests, and from here, online marketing companies can use this information to advertise products that meet their desires and interests.