The golden age of Islam extends to the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries AD. During this period, the architects, scholars, and merchants of the Islamic world made a significant contribution in the following fields: art, agriculture, economics, industry, literature, navigation, philosophy, science and technology, by preserving and building on previous contributions and adding many of their inventions. And their innovations. Philosophers, poets, artists, scholars, and Muslim princes created a unique culture that, in turn, affected societies on all continents. The Bedouin Arab forces established during the period of the first invasions extending between the beginning of the seventh century and the eighth century AD, and the beginning of the golden age of Islam with the beginning of the Umayyad Caliphate and the rise of the largest Islamic empire the world had witnessed the Umayyad state. The caliphate was influenced by Qur’anic statutes and by inspiring noble prophetic hadiths such as “the ink of the world is equal to the blood of a martyr,” stressing the importance of knowledge. During this period the Islamic world became the only cultural and intellectual center in the world for science, philosophy, medicine and education, as the Umayyads established the causes of knowledge and spread Islam in various regions of the East and West, and many were established the role of science and knowledge and attracted scholars, and the Umayyads launched the first Islamic currency, which is The Umayyad Dinar and established the first naval fleet and built and praised immortal Islamic landmarks in Damascus, Cordoba, Jerusalem, Medina, Aleppo and other Islamic cities, and the Umayyads established hospitals, libraries, places of knowledge, worship and palaces, and in the Abbasid era built the House of Wisdom in Baghdad; It is a place that both Muslim and non-Muslim scholars have sought to translate, collect and create knowledge from all over the world into the Arabic language. . She translated many books into Arabic and then translated them into Turkish, Persian, Hebrew and Latin. During that period the Islamic world was a number of cultures that gathered, compiled, improved and developed works collected from the Chinese, Persian, Egyptian, North African, Greek, Spanish, Sicilian and Byzantine civilizations. Other Islamic ruling families of that period, such as the Fatimids in Egypt and the Umayyads in Damascus and Andalusia, were flourishing cultural and intellectual centers such as Damascus, Cordoba and Cairo. Religious freedom helped create an intersecting cultural civilization as the Islamic civilization attracted Muslim, Christian and Jewish intellectuals, which helped create the greatest creative philosophical period in the Middle Ages and that during the period between the twelfth and thirteenth century AD The most important inventions in that period were Paper, which was previously a secret kept by the Chinese. The secret of making paper was taken from prisoners of war who were captured by the Muslims after the Battle of Talas in 751 AD, which led to the establishment of paper factories in Samarkand. By the year 900 AD there were hundreds of shops that operated with books and copies, and the establishment of public offices also began. The first book lending offices were also established. Then the paper industry moved to Fez and then Andalusia in the Umayyad era and from there to Europe in the thirteenth century AD. This can be many learning and development linked to geography . Even before Islam, the city of Mecca was the center of trade in the Arabian Peninsula, and the Prophet Muhammad was a merchant. The pilgrimage tradition to Mecca became a center for the exchange of ideas and goods. The impact of Arab merchants on Arab-African trade routes and Arab-Asian trade was enormous. As a result, Islamic civilization grew and expanded based on the economy of its merchants, in contrast to their fellow Christians, Indians and Chinese who built agricultural societies. Merchants transported their goods and faith to China and India (the Indian subcontinent currently contains more than 450 million Muslims, South Asia (where there are about 230 million Muslims) and the kingdoms in North Africa, and they also returned with great inventions. Merchants used their money to invest in Cloth and agriculture In addition to merchants, Muslims played an important role in spreading Islam, by spreading their messages to various regions around the world. The main regions included: Persia, Mesopotamia, Central Asia and North Africa. Likewise, the Sufis had a major influence on Spreading Islam to regions such as East Africa, Anatolia (which includes Turkey), South Asia, East Asia and Southeast Asia Many medieval Muslim thinkers pursued and included humanism and rationalism in their research on knowledge and values. Religious tolerance in Islam helped create a network of multiple cultures where Muslim, Christian and Jewish intellectuals were attracted, which allowed for the greatest period of philosophical creativity in the Middle Ages, from the eighth to the thirteenth century AD. There is another reason for the prosperity of the Islamic world in this period, which is the focus of the Islamic civilization on freedom of speech, and this can be demonstrated through the following text taken from a message that Al-Hashemi (who is a relative of the Al-Ma'mun) sent to one of his religious opponents and where Al-Hashemi was trying to guide him to Islam Through logic: We consider Arab-Islamic studies as the most recent studies that dealt with the environment and ecology, especially pollution. Examples of these studies are what was written by al-Kindi, al-Razi, Ibn al-Jazzar, al-Tamimi and Ibn al-Nafis. Their writings covered a number of topics related to pollution, such as: air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution, mishandling of solid waste, and environmental impact assessment at specific sites. In Cordoba, in Andalusia, the first garbage bins and the first facilities for garbage collection and disposal were found. There are many important educational and scientific institutions in the Islamic world, such as: public hospitals and psychiatric hospitals. And public libraries, lending libraries, universities that used to grant degrees, and astronomical observatories. They were the first universities to issue study licenses in Bimaristan, which were considered medical-therapeutic universities, as they were granted to those who become qualified to practice medicine. Sir John Bagot brought forth: In the Umayyad era, medicine was taken care of and treatment in Damascus, hospitals were set up, and the work of healers, pharmacists, medicines was organized, and medicine teaching was organized. The Guinness Book of Records considers the University of Kairouan in Fez, Morocco, the oldest university in the world, as it was established in the year 859 AD. Al-Azhar University, which was established in Cairo in the tenth century, offered various academic degrees, including postgraduate degrees, and it is often considered a full-fledged university. By the 10th century, Córdoba had 700 mosques, 60,000 palaces, and 70 libraries, the largest of which contained 600,000 books. A total of 60,000 studies, poems and authors were published each year. There were nearly two million books in the Cairo Library. And it is said that the Tripoli Library in Lebanon contained more than 3 million books before they were destroyed by the Crusaders. It is also mentioned that the number of important scientific works accomplished by the Muslim Arabs that survived the destruction exceeds the number of scientific works that have survived written in Latin and Greek combined. The Islamic world has provided many advantages of modern offices, as these offices are no longer a place to collect books only, but are considered public offices and books are loaned in them, as they were considered a center for education and the dissemination of science, and a center for discussion and meeting, and in some cases housing For scholars. And just as books in these libraries were classified for the first time based on the type of book .. Many legal institutions present in Islamic law and Islamic jurisprudence were adopted by the English, as this transfer was made by the Normans during their occupation of it, so did the Sicilians and the Sicilians. Examples of this include the following: the English royal contract is identical to the Islamic contract, and the English jury is similar to the Islamic group. ref> These influences have led some scholars to suggest that Islamic law, Islamic law, may have led to the foundation of the law. Another manifestation of the golden age of Islam is the presence of a large number of Muslim scholars who were nicknamed (al-Hakim / plural, wise / singular), as each of them contributed in a variety of religious, scientific and educational fields, and this is similar to Renaissance men such as Leonardo Da Vinci. In this era, Muslim scholars enjoyed wide and broad knowledge in various fields and fields, and they did not specialize in one field. Ziauddin Sardari says: The golden age of Islam witnessed a major transformation in agriculture, and this transformation was known as the Islamic Agricultural Revolution or the Green Revolution. Golden Age Golden Age.