Light is an electromagnetic radiation of wavelength that the human eye can see if its wavelength falls between about 750 nanometers (red light) and 370 nanometers (violet light), and the eye can see opaque objects through the reflection of light on them. The word light refers to this middle part of the electromagnetic radiation spectrum that extends from the radio waves (or radio waves) used in the transmission of radio with a wavelength between a centimeter and several kilometers, and extends on the other side of the visible spectrum from ultraviolet rays, to x-rays, and then to rays. Gamma emitted by the nuclei of atoms has high energies and a high penetration rate. Newton's interest in mechanics provided a strong impetus to explain the composition of light on a purely mechanical basis. Newton assumed that light are small particles that travel in straight lines unless something obstructs them. Empirically, the properties of light, such as reflection on a polished surface and refraction on the surface of water, were known at that time, so Newton had to give an explanation for these phenomena on the basis of his particle theory. According to Newton, the reflection of light on smooth surfaces so that the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence is caused by the elastic collision of these particles and their rebound with the same amount of movement. As for the refraction of light rays, it was explained by the different forces acting on the particle in both mediums. Newton’s ideas met with success in the beginning, but soon new phenomena were discovered that contradict these ideas, perhaps the most important of them is the phenomenon of diffraction of light. Where if we shine a light source on a barrier with a hole, it is observed on a screen behind this barrier that a light spot will appear wider than the hole and its size increases as we move away from the hole. This completely contradicts Newton's laws of motion . If we assume that the light is particles traveling in a straight line, this means that the size of the light spot will be equal to the size of the hole because the barrier will prevent the particles that did not pass through the hole from crossing. This prompted Huygens to conclude that light is in fact waves propagating in space so that each point of the wavefront in turn becomes the source of another wave. Then another discovery came to support the hypothesis of the wave nature of light, which is the phenomenon of interference in Young's brother experiment, in which a beam of light is shined on a screen with two slits a few millimeters wide and a few centimeters apart, and a ray-viewing screen is placed behind the barrier. And the result of the experiment was amazing, as it was observed on the screen many bright, rectangular areas such as the slits and other dark areas, so that their appearance was alternating, i.e. dark light, dark light, and so on. The effect of the phenomenon is more pronounced as the size of the two incisions is smaller, and they disappear completely if their size exceeds a few tens of millimeters. This was evidence of the wave nature of light. This range of the electromagnetic wave spectrum can be defined as that spectrum that can affect the eye and sense vision, and the visible light spectrum begins at the violet color and ends at the red color. And because the sensitivity of the eye varies according to the wavelength of the received light rays, it is able to distinguish between different colors. The sensitivity of the eye is greatest at the wavelength that lies between green and yellow. Light wavelengths are measured in very small units such as micrometers, nanometers, and angstroms. The wavelength difference can be observed with the eye and then translated inside the mind to the color of red, which has the longest wavelength, as its wavelength is 700 nanometers, and violet has the shortest wavelength as its wavelength is about 400 nanometers, and between them various colors such as orange, green, and blue appear. The electromagnetic wavelength spectrum outside the field of view of the eye is called ultraviolet and infrared rays. Some animals can see some long wavelengths like bees. Prolonged exposure to UV rays of the skin can cause sunburn or skin cancer, and lack of exposure causes vitamin D deficiency. Light spreads in all directions and very quickly to the point where there is nothing in our daily life that leads us to say that it moves faster than light, the spread of light is in straight lines. Therefore, every particle has a shadow when the light falls on it or on anything emanating from it, so it can be said that the spread of light in straight lines is a scientific principle that is achieved by viewing the shadow, as well as the gathering of light with lenses and cameras is an application of this fact. The sensitivity of the eye varies according to the radiation energy received from the luminous or visible objects, and the eye is able to distinguish between the different colors that make up the normal light, the visible sunlight reaching the surface of the earth, as each color has different properties from the other color. Where the limit of sensitivity of the eye falls in the discrimination or vision of colors, that is, to light waves between light whose wavelength is (4000A or 400 nanometers) to (7000A or 700 nm), i.e. these two values ??are the limits of the sense of vision. However, the eye can also detect light with a wavelength outside these limits if the intensity of the light is high enough and use photographic panels and sensitive electronic detectors to detect radiation instead of the human eye, especially outside the mentioned limits (4000 - 7000A). These limits are known as visible light limits. ). According to our previous definition of light, we can give a definition of the nature of light, based on Maxwell's equations and the electromagnetic theory that it is an electromagnetic disturbance that spreads in the form of transverse waves, part of which the voltage changes periodically and the other part in which the magnetic field changes periodically also and at the same rate of voltage change. And the two are perpendicular to each other. The electromagnetic wave is generally characterized by the following factors: 1- The amplitude of the wave (a) in meters. 2 - The wavelength (?) in meters. 3 - wave velocity (?) m / s. 4 - Frequency (f) Hz, i.e. cycle / second. 5 - The wave number (k), meaning the number of waves per unit length, which is equal to (2? / ?) (meters) ^ (- 1). 6 - The angular frequency (), which is equal to (? = 2?f). The relationship for wave velocity is given as follows (? = ?. F), and in the case of electromagnetic waves, the relationship c = ?. f where c is the speed of light in a vacuum. It is estimated at 300,000 km / s. Einstein proved in the theory of relativity that the speed of light in a vacuum is constant and does not change, and that it is the highest speed ever, and that objects cannot reach it. As objects increase their mass as their speed approaches the speed of light. In optics and waves, lengths are measured in very small units, and the used is the micrometer ?m, the milli-micrometer mm, or nanometer nm, or angstroms A, where: 1A = 10 ^ (- 10) meter 1? = 10 ^ (- 6) meter 1nm = 10 ^ (- 3) µm = 10 ^ (- 9) meter For example, the wavelength of yellow light is (5890A) and it is within the limits of visibility (4000A - 7000A) and the source of the light around us is the sun and this does not mean that the sun is the only source of light, so the stars And galaxies emit light. In our daily life, we get light from electricity and lamps. Do not forget the fire, it is also a source of light. Astronomers used to believe that light travels at an infinite speed, just as it was believed that any event that occurs anywhere in the universe is observed at all other points in the universe at the same time. It is said that Galileo tried to measure the speed of light in 1600 AD, but he did not succeed in that period except after several attempts and was convinced that the speed of light is infinite, meaning there is nothing faster than light. But in 1849 AD, the scientist Fizo succeeded in giving a value to the speed of light on planet Earth. In space, the absolute speed of light is (3exp8 m / s). And in physical media, light travels at a speed depending on the properties of the medium. The relationship between the speed of light in the medium (v) and the speed of light in a vacuum c is: (c / n) = v = c. (?. ?) ^ (1/2) where (v) the speed of light in the physical medium. And c is the speed of light in a vacuum, which is 3exp8 m / s. And (?) the coefficient of electrical permittivity, i.e. the coefficient of the permissibility of the electric field of the medium. And (?) the magnetic permeability coefficient (i.e. the penetration coefficient of the magnetic field of the medium). And (n = (c / v) the refractive index of the medium, where the ratio represents the speed of light in a vacuum and the speed of light in the medium, or (n ^ 2 = ?. ?), so its value is always greater than one. The speed of light in water is three quarters of the speed of light in a vacuum. The speed of light in glass is two-thirds of the speed of light in a vacuum. The speed of light was calculated in a vacuum and the calculated value was 299, 792, 458 meters per second, but when light passes through transparent mediums, its speed decreases, and it is also possible to be subjected to refraction and reflection depending on the nature of the two mediums it crosses. The photoelectric effect occurs when an electromagnetic radiation falls on a metal surface, resulting in the release of electrons from the metal surface. This is because part of the energy of the electromagnetic ray is absorbed by the electron attached to the metal atoms, and it is freed from it and acquires kinetic energy, and this process depends on the frequency of the light wave. The wave theory of light remained prevalent for a long time until the end of the nineteenth century until the discovery of the photoelectric effect and worked on the transformation of concepts about the nature of light. The photoelectric effect is summarized as follows: A light radiation is shone on a metal placed in a vacuum bell and in the presence of an electric field applied between two electrodes attached to the ammeter. In the absence of any radiation, the device indicator points to zero. When the radiation is shed, the device’s pointer is noticed, indicating the presence of an electric current, meaning that a number of electrons were extracted from the metal and moved under the influence of the electric field to the anode. Nothing here contradicts the wave theory, since it can be assumed that the energy of the wave (proportional to the square of the wave amplitude) has transferred to the electrons of the metal. But experience has shown that the energy of the electrons does not depend on the intensity of the radiation but on its frequency: the electrons in the atom respond to the frequency of the light beam in particular, and increasing the intensity of the radiation only increases the number of electrons. The first to provide an explanation for this effect was Albert Einstein, only the latter. The light is emitted in the form of discrete quantities of energy called photons. Each photon carries with it an amount of energy equal to the gravity of the frequency with Planck's constant. Note: Contrary to what some believe, Einstein won the Nobel Prize for his work on the photoelectric effect and not on relativity theory. There are many light sources. The most common of these sources are heat sources: they are a body that emits at a certain temperature a spectrum corresponding to black body radiation. Examples include the spectrum (the radiation emitted from the Sun's atmosphere at the peak of the Planck curve is about 6000 K of the electromagnetic spectrum), incandescent light bulbs (which only emit about 7% of their energy as visible light and the rest as infrared), and solid particles glowing in flames. The peak in the black body spectrum is shifted towards the infrared field of relatively cold objects such as humans. As the body temperature increases (like molten iron), the peak shifts into shorter wavelengths, producing first a red glow, then a white glow, and finally a blue glow as the peak shifts out from the visible part of the spectrum into the ultraviolet spectrum. These colors can be seen when the metal is heated to high temperatures and we see red, then white. The thermal blue versions are often not seen. The blue color seen in a gas flame or welding torch is actually the result of molecular emissions, especially from free CH radicals (emitting a wave packet of about 425 nm). Atoms emit and absorb light at distinct energies. Which generates strands of atomic release in the spectrum of each atom. The emission can be spontaneous emission, as in the case of a LED, a gas-discharge lamp (such as neon lights, neon signs, mercury vapor lamps, etc.), and flame (a light from the hot gas itself, for example, emits Sodium lights yellow when placed in a gas flame). The release can also be stimulated, as in a laser or in a microwavable maser. Slowing down charged particles, such as electrons, can generate visible radiation: cyclotron radiation, synectron radiation, and bridging rays. Elementary particles moving faster than the speed of light within a medium can generate Chernkov radiation. Some chemicals generate visible radiation by chemiluminescence. Like in living things, this process is called bioluminescence. For example, fireflies generate light in this way, and boats sailing in the water can distinguish the plankton that generates a weak glow. Some materials generate light when illuminated by radiation with an energy matching their electronic distribution. This phenomenon is known as fluorescence. They are used in fluorescent lamps. Some materials emit light shortly after they are stimulated by energy radiation. This phenomenon is known as phosphorescence. Phosphorescent materials can be stimulated by shining subatomic particles on them. Floodlighting is one example. This mechanism is used in the cathode ray tube viewer. And there are other mechanisms for producing light: when the concept of light extends to include photons of very high energy (gamma rays), the mechanisms of light generation also include: the annihilation of the particle - the antiparticle. Features International Commission on Illumination between the light source and Almzia . A light source is a physical source of light, such as the sun and lamps, while the term luminous refers to a special spectral power distribution. Thus the luminance can be pre-configured, but it may not be feasible to synthesize it. It was believed until the end of the eighteenth century that light is similar to sound and needs a material medium in order to travel and this medium is called the ether, which scientists knew as a very thin substance with an infinitesimal density to justify that the aether cannot be observed, but the experiment (Michelson - Morley) proved The ether does not exist. In the year 1905 AD, Einstein developed a hypothesis to solve this problem, and the hypothesis says: (If there are a number of observers moving at a regular speed, each with respect to the other and also with respect to the light source, and if each of the observers measures the speed of light coming out of the source, then they will all get the same value for the speed of light). It is the same idea as Galileo in 1600 CE, and this assumption is the basis of the special theory of relativity, which dispensed with the idea of ??the existence of the aether. And he proved that the speed of light is constant in all references. Newton imagined that the luminous object emits from it tiny spherical, fully flexible particles that travel at a very large regular speed and vary from one medium to another according to its density. And the movement of these spherical particles is in straight lines in a single homogeneous medium, and Newton inferred that when light rays collide with a reflective surface, the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection, as colliding a fully flexible ball with a smooth, rebounding surface, so that its angle of incidence equals its angle of reflection. As for the phenomenon of refraction, it was explained by Newton. When these light spherical particles penetrate into mediums of different densities such as water or glass, they are refracted within each medium and deviate from the straight path. When light travels from a less dense medium such as air to a more dense medium such as water, the water medium deflects these light particles downward, meaning that the vertical component of the speed of the refracted light will decrease so that the light spherical particles approach the column on the surface separating the two mediums. Thus, the resulting velocity will increase, meaning that the speed of light in the dense medium will increase and become greater than the speed of light in the light medium (that is, the speed of light depends on the optical density of the medium). This is not correct and contradicts scientific experiments as the speed of light is the greatest possible in a vacuum, meaning it increases as the density of the medium decreases, so the speed of light is at its peak in a vacuum, and thus Newton’s theory failed to explain the phenomenon of diffraction, interference and polarization. Maxwell found that light is an electromagnetic wave whose speed is equal to the speed of light. That is, light is electromagnetic waves with energy, and it has been shown that the electric charge generates an electric field around it while it is static, and generates a magnetic field while it is moving. As well as the change in the electric field generates a magnetic field, and this is the text of (Ampère) law. And that the change in the magnetic field generates an electric field, and this is the text of (Faraday's) law. This fact is the origin of the formation of electromagnetic waves, as an oscillating electric charge generates in space two electric and magnetic fields, that is, a variable (electromagnetic) field, and this field moves in a vacuum at the same speed of light (3exp8 meters / second), i.e. 300,000 km / s. C = 1 / ((?. ?) ^ (1/2)) = 3 exp8 As for the intensity of light (I) or the intensity of the electromagnetic wave, it is (energy per unit time per unit area and perpendicular to the direction of wave propagation). I = ?. (Eexp2). c where (E) is the electric or magnetic field strength (B). It defines the approximate range of the electromagnetic spectrum from radio waves of long wavelength to gamma rays of very short wavelength and high energy. And visible light, i.e. the wavelengths that the human eye can detect, ranges from ultraviolet to infrared. It is worth noting that there are no borders separating the spectrum regions from each other. When electromagnetic waves fall on a surface and in a vertical manner, the body absorbs those rays and that a force called the radiation force appears and is calculated through the following relationship: F ??= P / © where P is the energy per unit time, i.e. the power of the absorbed electromagnetic wave and P can be obtained through the relationship Next: P = (u) / c where u is the electromagnetic energy. One of the most important physicists who explained the behavior of light around the world is Planck, who studied the radiation energy emitted from hot objects and was able to calculate it according to the following law: E = h. f where (E) is energy and (h) is a constant called Planck's constant and equals 6. 635exp - 34 J. s joules. a second . And (f) is the frequency of the emitted light. And that light is emitted in the form of small quantities, which he called a photon. Einstein suggested on the basis of Planck's hypothesis that energy in light beams propagates in the vacuum in the form of concentrated beams of energy, which are photons, and their emission is in the form of quanta, i.e. the impulses. He suggested that the light passing through the vacuum does not behave as a wave at all but rather a behavior The photon particle, and thus Einstein opposed at first the principle of the wave theory of light, which achieved great laboratory results, but after a period of time Einstein supported the idea of ??the wave theory and opposed himself any opposing the principle of the behavior of particles. In 1924 AD, the French scientist de Broglie developed a very important principle, which is the prevailing principle until now, which received the effect of a doctorate in physics, and states: (That light has a double characteristic, as it behaves like a wave under certain conditions - (This explains reflection, refraction, polarization, diffraction and interference. This is in agreement with Maxwell's theory) - and that light behaves like a particle (photon) under other conditions - (This explains the interaction of light with materials, the photoelectric phenomenon, the Compton phenomenon, and so on, and this is consistent with the theories of Einstein and Newton). This means that matter has a double characteristic. We have a body of mass (m) moving with a momentum (p), so the wavelength associated with it is given by the following law: From the theoretical point of view, this law is very important, which is the axis of the quantum theory. Note in the law that P. ? = h where (p) represents Particle considerations (P = m. V, where v is the velocity of the particle) and (?) the wavelength and their product is Planck's constant (h). It means more precisely that a beam of any light beam has a frequency and wavelength and can be considered a wave and it can be said that the beam Photons are a problem of photons, meaning they have both kinetic energy and a momentum The energy transfer as wave motion usually requires a medium in which the particles of the medium oscillate. The oscillating particle strongly affects its neighbor, making it oscillate as well, and in this way, the movement from one particle to another and thus the wave energy is transmitted in the material, a situation similar to what happens in water when energy is transferred to the bank without the water particles moving itself or sound transmission in the air. And the idea of ??the ether was invented so that this medium would be the medium that transmits light in the previous way. But, according to the electromagnetic theory, light does not need a medium, as it comes from the sun, that is, in a vacuum in which there is no medium and at the absolute speed of light, and then it was found from the electromagnetic theory that the electromagnetic wave is the change of two compatible fields of the same frequency, one of which is electric (E) and the other is magnetic (B) . The wave front has been defined accordingly as the geometric locus of all single-phase points.