GNU / Linux is a free, open source operating system. Due to its development within the framework of the GNU Project, GNU / Linux enjoys a high degree of freedom in modifying, operating, distributing and developing its parts, and GNU / Linux is considered one of the Unix-like systems and is classified within the Unix family along with other systems, some of which are commercial and some of them are free as Solaris and FreeB. S. D. Because of the freedom provided by GNU / Linux, it opened the way for others to develop on it in a way that succeeded in establishing a system developed by multiple parties, until it became operating on a wide range of platforms ranging from giant servers to mobile phones, and the user interfaces operating on it developed to support almost all languages ??of the world. Being free, open source, easy to adapt and change the behavior of the system, the speed of its development is high and the number of its users is increasing at the level of personal devices and servers. GNU / Linux is considered free software, and GNU / Linux as a free system does not necessarily mean that it is a free system, as the party that wants the program is responsible for providing the source code for the program, but at the same time it is free to sell and set the price of the version that it built. Many distributions of the GNU / Linux system have been produced, as many groups have compiled open source programs on different bodies to facilitate the installation of the system and to reach different goals. Some use the term versions or flavors to refer to the different distributions ranging from home computers to servers. Each edition, distribution, or flavor has its own advantages, and it cannot be assured that a particular version is better than another version. Some distributions are considered better by speakers of a particular language and some distributions are preferred by new users. Richard Stallman started the GNU Project on September 27, 1983, to build a completely free operating system that provides computer users with their freedom and relieves them from having to use proprietary software that robs them of their freedom to modify, adapt and share software with one another. The project began writing the GNU operating system almost from scratch by writing alternate tools for the Unix system tools so that they were replaced one by one until the operating system was complete. By the end of the eighties and the beginning of the nineties, almost all the basic components of the GNU system had been completed except for the kernel, so until that time there was no complete kernel of the GNU system, but there were attempts still in its infancy to make a kernel (which later became known as Hurd) based on the nucleus Mach, But this took a very long time. Here comes the role of the Linux kernel. Meanwhile, in 1991, another nucleus began to develop as a hobby for Finnish student Linus Torvalds while he was studying at the University of Helsinki in Finland. Torvalds initially used Minix on his personal computer, a simplified version of a Unix-like operating system developed by Professor Andrew Tannenbaum for use in teaching operating system design. But Tannenbaum was not allowing others to develop MINIX, which led Linus to write a replacement for him. In the beginning it was necessary to have a computer running Minx to set up and install GNU / Linux, and there was also a need for another operating system to download and run GNU / Linux. But then it appeared Fork independent boot like Lillo . The GNU / Linux system quickly outperformed Minx in function. Torvalds and the early Linux kernel developers adapted their work to work with GNU components and UE tools to create a fully functional and free operating system. Currently, Torvalds still directs the kernel development process, while other components such as GNU develop independently (developing the Linux kernel is not part of the GNU project). Other groups and companies distribute these components together in the form of Linux distributions. The GNU project was aiming to create an operating system similar to Unix, and work began on it in 1985 and many tools related to operating systems were programmed such as text editors and compilers, and in In the late eighties, all the main components of the system were present except for the kernel, and work began on the project, which was later known as Hurd, but it took a long time for this kernel to program it, and after a short period of work began in Hurd, the kernel Linux appeared independently of the GNU project But those interested in getting an integrated free system started working on adapting the Linux kernel to work with GNU, and thus the Linux kernel and the GNU project tools merged to create a completely free and usable operating system without any non-free components. People often mean by the word "Linux" an integrated operating system that contains a graphical interface and other programs from compilers and others, but in fact the supporters of the GNU Project, especially Richard Stallman, prefer to use the name GNU / Linux to the system, because in fact Linux is a kernel. Operating system While the GNU tools make up the bulk of the system, and without them, the Linux kernel becomes almost useless, and with reference to GNU, people remember the idea behind the system represented by the GNU Project and its philosophy. There are many factors behind the developer interest the system received in its inception. Including the license to which the system is subject. But the most important factor was the integration that took place between the Linux project and the GNU project. Linux provided the kernel on which hundreds of GNU programs could run. The union between Linux and GNU was what gave an integrated system, with all the tools and programs that any user would need at that time. When Torvalds first wrote Linux, it only supports 386 processors and can only be programmatically discharged through the Minx system, but today it supports many processors and devices, so it is currently used in portable and compact devices, as well as with regard to hardware and computer parts of all kinds. The GNU / Linux system enjoys a high degree of security and reliability. It is even used in the most sensitive places, which increased systems support for it and its spread, and supported companies producing programs and solutions for it, as it became possible to use the Oracle database system in GNU / Linux, and a wide range of corporate solutions provided by IBM HP, Novell and others are now available and / or based on GNU / Linux. Because the GNU / Linux system requires the presence of powers to execute any command, and because viruses carry out specific actions and a certain mechanism, it is difficult for the virus to obtain the authority to perform a disruptive action. This is for viruses directed to GNU / Linux programs. As for viruses directed at the kernel, they encounter the problem of continuous development of the kernel. The kernel supports Linux as a large number of types of hardware, but it surpasses many other systems in this regard, as the speed of Linux development makes it provide support for cutting very modern hardware quickly, and it also supports pieces of very old hardware that many other systems have stopped supporting. But sometimes Linux faces problems in supporting hardware parts for which there are no documents that help to write support for them, and the manufacturers of these parts refrain from providing support for them on Linux, like many internal modems. GNU / Linux is characterized by stability and the most compact security system, as it has some versions or distributions that work on different devices such as IBM-compatible devices, Macintosh devices, Amiga devices, and even large devices that rely on RISC processors, known among people as the Mini / Mainframe devices. The Linux kernel contains all the features found in any operating system, including the method of sharing a single processor between independent and multiple functions, as well as allowing the kernel to use an extended, iterative use of computer memory, which is called virtual memory that leads to improved performance, as the memory management department divides the main computer memory into sections Small to reduce memory saturation problem. GNU / Linux is a case sensitive system. Unlike most systems, capital letters and lowercase letters make a big difference in GNU / Linux. Historically, GNU / Linux was primarily used as an operating system for servers, but its low cost, flexibility, and similarity to Unix make it suitable for many applications. Due to its low cost and high ability to configure and configure it, GNU / Linux has become one of the most important systems included in television sets, mobile phone systems and portable electronic devices. GNU / Linux (besides being a server system) is also spreading as an operating system for supercomputer computers. In the November 2005 issue of Fastest 500 Supercomputers, the two fastest computers were running the GNU / Linux system, and out of the 500 computers, 371 (74.2%) were running different versions of GNU / Linux, seven of the top ten were also running the GNU / Linux system. Linux. GNU / Linux was configured in an early period to designs other than the 80386 from Intel that it was originally designed to work on, and today the Linux kernel works on a wide variety of designs including the Intel family of processors, Spark and PowerPC, and on platforms ranging from mobile devices to the huge z9 servers from IBM It is usable for many purposes and for various applications. Traditionally, GNU / Linux was not a system intended for home and office users, but in recent years there have been many changes in this direction and GNU / Linux has begun to put a front in the office system. The wide spread of personal computers used for office applications and daily use requires a prerequisite for the system to be truly usable, and the wide variety of tasks assigned to computers today, from providing network services to multimedia software, as an environment for developing software and office software, and even for entertainment and games; The current GNU / Linux distributions lack support from major software companies, making the system almost devoid of commercial programs except for what is rare, and the existing and critical problem is that GNU / Linux does not run Microsoft Windows applications by default, and to solve this problem, projects like Wayne seek to run Applications designed for Windows in the GNU / Linux environment, but only cover a portion of those programs. Due to the design of the system, GNU / Linux has become the monopoly of servers and as an integrated system in some devices, and as a desktop system there are many problems that hinder the system from being a desktop system: Due to the compatibility of GNU / Linux with other systems of the Unix family, the rates of The use of GNU / Linux as a server operating system quickly, and this made GNU / Linux used and from an early period in the server environment, running applications such as web servers, databases and mail, and thus the GNU / Linux market grew continuously and robustly as a server operating system. The kernel uses Linux as part of a comprehensive set of the system and its applications called the "distro" distribution. Each distribution is constructed, compiled programmatically and compiled by individuals, companies, or programmers groups that include their choices of software, applications, and a system installer in addition to the Package Manager package coordinator. Multiple user interfaces. Distributions are created with different goals, including support for some computer architectures, normalization of the system to a specific region or language, or real-time applications in addition to the embedded systems and often only include free software. Currently, there are more than three hundred GNU / Linux distributions around the world that are constantly being developed and updated, including twelve distributions that are very popular and popular. A typical distribution will always include the Linux kernel, some free libraries and necessary tools, the shell, the X window system and a group of accompanying desktop environments such as Ki. D. E and GNOME with thousands of software and software packages from the office kit to compilers, text editors and some scientific programs. The high level available to access the depths of GNU / Linux is an important reason why GNU / Linux users have more technology and programming orientations than Windows and Mac OS systems. Closed S, which is more suitable for beginners. That is why GNU / Linux users are often called geek. The reason is that GNU / Linux and other free and open source software projects were not designed to accommodate the ease of use required by non-specialists and novices in computing. Despite the spread of GNU / Linux during the past four years in a slight way, many hardware companies did not provide any support for it, under the pretext that it did not spread at such a high rate that it deserves the support. Technical support for GNU / Linux is available either through a paid service provided by commercial companies, and here the advantages of free software appear; The availability of the source makes the field of competition open to all and not limited to a specific company - which owns the source - which means diversity in the service and greater benefit for the user, so he can choose whomever he wants according to his needs and satisfaction with the service provided. Or free support provided by the GNU / Linux community and free software, usually in forums or chat programs such as IRC, newsgroups or mailing lists. In most of the major cities in the world there are also Linux user groups that usually organize themselves to provide technical support to their members and their surrounding areas. With the slightest spread of GNU / Linux in recent times, however, many distributions did not provide good facilities that would allow it to be easily used within the graphical user interface. You can use GNU / Linux now, but many users will not completely dispense with their previous systems unless they are using the computer for simple things such as surfing the Internet or editing texts. There are many different applications in GNU / Linux, but they do not rise to the level of those found in Windows and Mac OS systems, especially computer games as there are few commercial games in GNU / Linux that are prepared on the fingers of the hand and are often released after The release of the game on the rest of the systems and platforms in a few months. The business system for commercial companies that provide support for GNU / Linux usually depends on a payment system for support, especially for business users, where companies provide copies of their distributions to businesses that are paid for and provide support packages and tools to manage the installation and administrative tasks of the system.