Nuclear energy is the energy released during the fission or fusion of atomic nuclei. Nuclear energy accounts for 20% of the world's generated energy. Scientists view nuclear energy as a true and inexhaustible source of energy. What raises some opposition about the future of nuclear power are the high costs of building reactors, public safety concerns, and the difficulty of safely disposing of highly radioactive waste. As for the cost, it is relatively high in terms of building the reactor, but these costs are compensated over time as nuclear fuel is relatively cheap. As for the aforementioned concerns, they are being exploited by the political parties in the elections between supporters and opponents in order to obtain many seats in parliaments. As for nuclear technology, it has the preparations to solve safety issues and the proper disposal of radioactive waste. Nuclear radiation, if not fatal, causes disabilities, deformities, and disabilities that are difficult to treat. It results from the effect of nuclear radiation on the components of living cells as a result of reactions unrelated to the normal reactions in the cell. The size of the effective dose varies according to the type of organisms. There are insects that die when their bodies absorb nuclear energy up to only 20 Gray (1 Gray = joule per kilogram of the body exposed to nuclear radiation Gray = J / kg), and insects do not die until the dose reaches About 3000 Gray (twice the previous dose 150 times). The effect of mammals begins at a dose of no more than 2 Gray, and viruses can tolerate a dose of 200 Gray, which is twice the dose affecting mammals 100 times. The amount of radioactive waste as a result of nuclear fission in power plants in nuclear reactors is limited compared to the amount of waste in thermal plants that run on fossil energy, such as oil or coal. Nuclear waste reaches 3 milligrams per kilowatt hour (3mg / kWh) compared to about 700 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour in regular thermal plants, but this very small amount of nuclear radiation may be fatal or may cause untreated deformities and deformities. This is why all countries that use nuclear energy to produce electrical energy work to get rid of these radioactive waste by burying them in the geological layers deep under the surface of the earth away from people, and the effectiveness of radiation may continue for centuries or even thousands of years until this radiation dies out or reaches a level equivalent to the natural radiation. That is why scientists are currently trying to generate nuclear energy through nuclear fusion instead of nuclear fission, in which uranium atoms are split and give protons, neutrons and fine particles, whose movement turns into heat in the cooling water and from its high-pressure steam generates electrical energy. The problem with generating electricity from nuclear reactors is the radioactive waste that results from the process. This waste is harmful to humans and this is what made scientists seek to obtain energy by means of the nuclear fusion technology that is currently taking place in the sun, which results in a few radioactive waste. Nuclear power plants are a type of steam thermal power plant, as they generate steam with the heat that is generated in the reactor furnace. The difference in nuclear power plants is that instead of the furnace in which the fuel is burned, there is the atomic furnace, which needs an insulating and protective wall from atomic radiation. It consists of a layer of fiery bricks, a layer of water, a layer of steel and then a layer of cement up to two meters thick in order to protect workers in The station and the surrounding environment from pollution by atomic radiation. The nuclear reactor generates heat as a result of the splitting of uranium atoms by striking neutrons. This enormous thermal energy is used to boil water in boilers and convert it into steam with high pressure and a temperature of about 480 degrees Celsius. This high pressure steam (about 380 atm) is then applied to the fins of a steam turbine, which are designed to make the rapid steam rotate the axis of the turbine and thus convert the steam energy into mechanical energy on the axis of these turbines. The axis of the turbine is connected with the axis of the generator, so the axis of the generator (ALTERNATOR) rotates at the same speed, so electric energy is generated on both ends of the stator part of the generator. The first nuclear power plant in the world was implemented in 1954 and it was in the Soviet Union with a capacity of 5 MW. When scientists reached the liberation of nuclear energy from some elements such as uranium and plutonium. Fuel in nuclear reactors enriched uranium in sufficient quantity to cause a chain fission reaction that continues on its own. The fuel is placed in bundles of long uranium rods inside the reactor core, which is a large, highly insulated, pressurized boiler with a thick wall (about 25 centimeters of steel). Nuclear fission is carried out in them to generate heat to heat the water and create high pressure steam, which turns the turbines' fins connected to electrical generators. The rate of operation of the reactor is controlled by inserting cadmium rods into the reactor core, which absorbs the excess neutrons. The lower the number of neutrons in the reactor, the slower the rate of fission of uranium nuclei. The first nuclear reactor was built in 1944 in Hanford, America, to produce nuclear weapons materials and its fuel was natural uranium. And the substance that calmed down the speed of the neutrons was not water, but graphite, so plutonium was produced for use in making atomic bombs. The power generated from the reactor was not being utilized. Then, different types of reactors were built all over the world to generate electricity. And they differ in the type of fuel, coolants and sedatives. In America, nuclear fuel is used in the form of uranium oxide enriched to 3% with uranium-235 and moderated and cooled by pure water. This type of reactor is called the light water reactor (ie, ordinary water). Uranium is the primary raw material for civilian and military nuclear projects. It is extracted from layers close to the surface of the earth or by mining from underground. Although uranium is found naturally in all parts of the world, only a little of it is found in concentrated ore form. When certain uranium atoms are split in a reaction sequence called nuclear fission. It happens slowly in nuclear facilities, and tremendously fast in the event of a nuclear weapon detonating. This results in a release of energy, and in both cases, the fission must be very controlled. Nuclear fission is at its best when the isotopes of uranium-235 (or plutonium-239) are used. What is meant by isotopes are atoms with the same atomic number but a different number of neutrons. Uranium-235 is known as the fissile isotope because of its tendency to split in a chain reaction that releases energy in the form of thermal. When the nucleus of an atom of uranium-235 splits, it releases two or three neutrons. When there are other atoms of uranium-235 next to it, these neutrons collide, which leads to the fission of the other atoms, and thus other neutrons are released. The nuclear reaction does not occur unless there are enough uranium-235 atoms to allow this process to continue as a chain reaction that continues on its own. Or what is known as critical mass. However, every thousand atoms of natural uranium contain only seven atoms of uranium-235 that is capable of splitting. While the other 993 atoms of uranium are more dense, and its atomic number is uranium-238, it does not have the property of splitting when absorbing a neutron. Light water reactors are a type of nuclear fission reactors that are used in the United States of America, England, Japan, France, Germany, China, Canada and Belgium to generate electric forces and use ordinary water as a medium in heating water and converting it into high pressure steam to operate Turbines to generate electricity from generators. This requires enrichment of Uranium Fuel Enrichment. Natural uranium contains 0.7% of uranium-235, which is an isotope that is fissile. As for 99, 3% uranium-238 is not fissile. Natural uranium is enriched to 2, 5 - 3, 5% uranium-235 that is fissile in light water reactors operating in the United States of America, while The Heavy Water reactors operating in Canada use natural uranium. In the case of enrichment, it requires supplying the nuclear reactor with 30 tons of uranium enriched to 5 and 3% to supply one reactor with nuclear fuel for a year if it is operating at a capacity of 1000 megawatts. The process of uranium enrichment is done by permeating the gaseous material Uranium Hexaflouride in a barrier of porous material, increasing the proportion of uranium-235 in uranium from 7 and 0% to about 5 and 3% and is suitable for use in nuclear reactors. The light U-235 can also be separated in another way by centrifugation machines. The uranium fuel needed for fission reactors does not make an atomic bomb because it requires more than 90% enrichment to obtain a fast chain reaction. And uranium and plutonium enriched in a very high percentage are used in making nuclear bombs. Because highly enriched uranium has a high proportion of uranium-235 that is unstable and artificially concentrated (enriched). Plutonium is made as a result of treating uranium fuel in atomic reactors during their work, where some uranium atoms (about 1% of the amount of uranium) absorb a neutron to produce a new element, which is plutonium, which is extracted by chemical methods. To create a nuclear detonation, uranium or plutonium enriched in a certain way is combined with conventional explosives that create a critical mass. This combination simultaneously condenses the nuclear material, producing the chain reaction and producing the destructive nuclear explosion. It can enrich uranium in several ways . In the nuclear weapons program in America, it follows the gaseous diffusion method by converting uranium into Uranium Hexafluoride gas, where it is pumped through a membrane that allows uranium-235 atoms to pass through it more than the rest of the isotope uranium atoms and by repeating this process in several cycles, the concentration of uranium-235 increases. To manufacture nuclear weapons in China, France, Britain and the Soviet Union, who resorted to the method of enriching uranium by means of high-speed gas centrifugation instead of gaseous proliferation, and this is what Iran has followed. This method converts uranium into uranium hexafluoride gas and enters a centrifuge that rotates very quickly. Under the effect of the centrifugal force, uranium atoms heavier than uranium-235 atoms are directed outwards, and uranium-235 is concentrated in the medium to draw and separate. This method is used to enrich uranium in India, Pakistan, Iran and North Korea. There is also the jet-flow method used in South Africa and the electromagnetic isotope separation method that Iraq used before the 1991 Gulf War. The laser enrichment method can be used to separate uranium by converting the metal into steam and by shining laser beams on it to excite the uranium-235 atoms that are collected and concentrated by the electrostatic effect, and this experiment was done in South Korea in 2000 in secret. The nuclear fission reactors in the United States of America are called "light water reactors", unlike the "heavy water reactors" in Canada. And light water is ordinary water that is used in US reactors as a moderator to slow down the neutrons, as a coolant, and as a heat carrier and converting it into steam. This occurs in a large boiler in a vertical cylindrical shape, with a diameter of 5 meters and a height of 8 meters called a reactor boiler with a wall of steel of iron 25 cm thick. The vapor pressure rises to about 350 atmospheric pressure and it is at a temperature of about 450 degrees Celsius. This steam is directed to run the fins of the turbines that run the generators of electric power, and the use of ordinary water requires enrichment of uranium fuel to a degree between 0 and 3% to 5 and 3% with uranium-235, and both types of reactors that work with light water are the pressurized water reactor (PWR) where the water The boiling water reactor (BWR) uses water as a coolant and a source of steam to drive the turbines, which runs through the core of the reactor, is isolated from the turbines. Nuclear fission reactors in Canada are called water reactors ATEMs where heavy water acts as a medium in the reactor and deuterium, which is the heavy hydrogen. This type of reactor does not require enriched uranium fuel, but rather natural, and these Canadian reactors are called CANDU reactors. Main article: Termination of nuclear energy Termination of nuclear energy A term used to gradually close nuclear power plants In an organized manner by some countries that own these reactors The reason for these countries' desire to end the Nuclear energy on its soil is harmful nuclear waste that cannot be recycled. Currently, many countries, such as Sweden and Germany, have begun to reconsider their previous decision on ending nuclear energy, especially after the exacerbation of the global warming problem on the ground, due to the concentration of electrical energy production by the power plants that operate with coal and petroleum, which produce a huge amount of dioxide. Carbon, which is constantly raising the temperature on Earth. Claudio Philbon, a nuclear scientist and director of the Center for Advanced Energy at the University of Maryland, USA, was able to invent and design the advanced CAESAR reactor to produce electricity without causing any nuclear pollution or the spread of nuclear radiation. Unlike conventional nuclear reactors that are run with arms of uranium 238 fuel supplied with about 4% of uranium 235. When a neutron collides with a U-235 atom, it splits into nuclei and releases an amount of energy in the form of heat and more neutrinos that collide with other atoms. And control the "mediator" by inserting it between the fuel rods to slow some of the neutrinos to move slowly enough that they split the nuclei of the atoms. But after two or three years of running the reactor, the remaining U-235 atoms are insufficient and new fuel rods are needed. But the Caesar reactor relies on the fission of uranium-238 atoms inside the fuel rods by neutrons moving at an appropriate speed as a result of the presence of steam as a medium in the reactor, by precisely controlling its density, to slow down the passage of neutrinos to obtain the required fission from the uranium-238 atom. The occurrence of a nuclear reaction is accompanied by the release of energy and the release of more neutrinos, which in turn collide with another uranium atom, and so on. The Caesar reactor can be operated for decades without needing to be refueled. There are research reactors that are simpler than power reactors and operate at temperatures and fuel lower than highly enriched uranium (20% of U235), although some of the older research reactors use 93% of U235. Like power reactors, the core of the search reactor needs cooling, and a sedative of heavy water or graphite to calm the neutrons and promote fission. Most research reactors also need a graphite or beryllium reflector to reduce the loss of neutrons from the reactor core. Research Reactors are used to research, train, and test materials or produce radioisotopes for medical and industrial use. These reactors are smaller than power reactors . There are 283 of these reactors operating in 56 countries. As a source of neutrons for scientific research . Where will the nuclear reactors lead us? . Especially since nuclear energy supplies the world's countries with more than 16% of electric energy; It supplies 35% of the needs of the European Union. And Japan gets 30% of its electricity needs from nuclear energy, while Belgium, Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, Slovenia and Ukraine depend on nuclear energy to supply a third of its energy needs. Because the amount of nuclear fuel required to generate a large amount of electrical energy is much less than the amount of coal or petroleum needed to generate the same amount. One ton of uranium generates more electrical energy than millions of barrels of oil or millions of tons of coal. Solar energy cost is much greater than the costs of nuclear power . It does not emit harmful gases into the air such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide or sulfur dioxide that cause global warming, acid rain and smog. The source of nuclear fuel (uranium) is available and easy to obtain and transport, while the sources of coal and petroleum are limited. Nuclear power plants occupy small areas of land compared to power plants that rely on solar or wind energy. But the use of nuclear energy causes the production of waste with high radioactivity. Therefore, spent nuclear fuel is stored in water basins for the purpose of cooling it, absorbing harmful radiation and reducing its radioactivity. Then it can be recycled and reprocessed to recover uranium and plutonium that has not yet been fissioned, and used again as reactor fuel or in the production of nuclear weapons. And some elements in the waste such as plutonium are highly radioactive and remain on it for thousands of years. There is no safe system to dispose of this waste, but nuclear research centers around the world are working to find modern technology to solve this issue. Nuclear reactors were plagued with notoriety because of the terrible accident at the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986, which led to a terrible radioactive leak. It has killed 31 people and exposed hundreds of thousands of radiation that will continue to affect generations to come. Despite many objections to nuclear energy, the world looks to nuclear energy to reduce its dependence on oil, coal and gas for the production of electric power. On August 17, 2009, Time magazine presented the following presentation on the international projects that different countries aspire to implement until 2020. China: It has 11 nuclear reactors, is currently building 14 reactors, and plans to build 115 new reactors. France: 59 nuclear reactors operate in it, and it is currently building 1 reactor, and plans to establish 2 reactors. India: It has 17 nuclear reactors, and is currently building 6 reactors, and plans to build 38 reactors. Japan: It has 53 nuclear reactors, and is currently building 2 reactors, and plans to build 14 reactors. Russia: It has 31 nuclear reactors, and is currently building 8 reactors. It plans to build 36 Ukraine: 15 nuclear reactors are working in it, and plans to build 22 reactors. The United States of America: 104 nuclear reactors are operating in it, and it is currently building 1 reactor, and plans to build 31 reactors. Countries also plan to construct about 200 nuclear reactors, in addition to the above, until 2050.