The periodic table of the chemical elements, which is also known as a tabular display of the known chemical elements. The first to build it was Dmitri Mendeleev, who in 1869 arranged the elements according to the atomic masses of the elements, then in 1911 Henry Moseley rearranged the elements according to the atomic number, that is, the number of electrons in each element, where the chemical properties are repeated periodically in the table. The group is the vertical column on the periodic table of the elements. There in Table 18 groups in the standard periodic table . The elements in each group have the same valence shell composition in terms of the number of electrons, and this gives these elements a similarity in properties. There are three systems for numbering groups, the first using Arabic numerals, the second using Roman numerals, and the third is a combination of Roman numerals and Latin letters. The Arabic numbering was chosen by the International Union of Chemistry and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). This IUPAC proposed system was developed to replace Roman numerals as it may cause confusion since they use the same names with different meanings. The number of valence electrons determines which cycle the element is in. Each envelope of energy in the atoms of the elements is divided into several sub-levels, which are filled with increasing the atomic number of the elements according to the following order: This arrangement is similar to that of the periodic table. Because the electrons in the external energy levels determine the properties of the chemical elements, the elements tend to be similar in the periodic table groups. The following elements in the periodic table group have similar physical properties despite the big difference between the masses of each. While the elements that follow each other in the periodic table cycle have similar masses, but differ in their physical properties. For example, near nitrogen (N) is carbon (C) and oxygen (O) (when looking at the cycle). Regardless of their closeness in mass (the difference between them is estimated to be only limited atomic mass units), they have completely different properties, which can be observed when looking at the property of fusion: for example, when diatomic oxygen is a gas, it is a gas that helps with combustion, while diatomic nitrogen is a gas It is not conducive to ignition, and carbon is solid that can burn (diamonds can burn. Conversely, it is near chlorine (Cl) when looking at the group), in the latter groups both fluorine (F) and bromine (Br). Also, regardless of their great difference in mass, they have very close properties. They are all elements that corrode strongly (that is, they quickly bond with metals to form salts of metal halides), chlorine and fluorine are gases, but bromine is a liquid with a very low boiling point, and chlorine and bromine have a color. Main article: History of the periodic table Aristotle considered the elements as four elements in the year 330 BC. It is earth, air, fire and water. And in 1770 Lavoisier classified 33 elements. And a difference between metals (minerals) and nonmetals. In 1828 he made a table of the elements and their atomic weights and set the elements with their chemical symbols. In 1829 Döberner compiled three tables containing three groups, each group containing 3 isotropic elements. The first group includes lithium, sodium and potassium, and the second group includes calcium, strontium, and barium. And the third includes chlorine, bromine and iodine . In 1864 John Newlands arranged 60 elements according to atomic weights and found similarities between the first element, the ninth element, the second element, the tenth element, etc. of the order. He proposed the 'Law of Octaves'. Dmitri Mendeleev - a Russian chemist born in Tobolisk, Siberia in 1834 - was known as the father of the periodic table of the elements. This table is important for studying chemistry and understanding and simplifying chemical reactions, even complex ones. Not only did Mendeleev arrange the periodic table of the elements, but he wrote two volumes, Principles of Chemistry. Died January 20, 1907. The original periodic table was proposed without knowing the internal structure of the atoms. If the elements are arranged according to the atomic mass, and then other properties are put in place, it is possible to observe the frequency that occurs when the properties are represented against the atomic mass. The first to realize this repetition was the German chemist Johann Wolf Gang Dobrenner, who in 1829 observed the existence of trios of elements converging in their properties. And then the English chemist John Alexander Reina Newlands noticed in 1865 that the elements with similar properties were repeated in a periodicity of 8 elements, such as the octets of the musical scale, and this suggestion was met with the Newland Eighties ridicule from his contemporaries. Finally in 1869, German Julius Luther Meyer and Russian chemist Dmitry Ivanovich Mendeleev almost simultaneously developed the first periodic table, arranging the elements according to mass. Mendeleev changed the position of some elements because their new location matches better with the new elements next to them. Some errors have been corrected in placing some elements according to the values ??of atomic masses, and the locations of some presses have not yet been discovered. The correctness of Mendeleev's table was later proven after the discovery of electronic structure in the 19th, 20th centuries. In 1940, Glenn T. Seaborg clarified the dimension of uranium - the lanthanides and actinides, which could be placed in or below the table (as shown above). Mendeleev had attempted to classify the elements through his observations that some elements had similar chemical and physical properties. This similarity was considered by Mendeleev as the key to uncovering hidden patterns in the elements. He began by writing cards with elements and facts that are well known. He made each element a card on which he wrote down the melting point, density, color, and atomic weight of each element and its bonding strength. And the number of links that the component can create. And when Mendeleev finished writing the cards, he tried to classify them in a number of ways. Finally, he noticed that there were models that appeared to him by arranging these elements according to the increase in atomic mass or atomic weight. He observed that the bonding power of the elements from lithium to fluorine changed in an orderly manner. For example, after fluorine, we find the heavier element sodium, which has the same bonding strength as lithium. That's why Mendeleev arranged the sodium card under the lithium card. This means in Mendeleev's table that the element has the same property as the element above it or the element below it. Despite this, Mendeleev's schedule was not complete or accurate. Because the arrangement of the elements is according to the increasing atomic mass of each element, behind 3 spaces in its table, and Mendeleev said that these spaces will be filled with elements that have not yet been discovered. Through its location in its schedule, it was able to show its properties . Mendeleev's table was published in 1869 AD. The word "periodic" means that patterns of properties of elements are repeated in each row. And after 16 years of publishing Mendeleev's table, chemists were able to discover the three missing elements from the table: scandium, gallium, and germanium. Its properties were similar to what Mendeleev had mentioned about it. The periodic table finds a table of the chemical elements arranged to show their chemical and physical properties. However, elements such as chlorine, iron and copper are basic chemicals that are not broken by chemical reactions. The opposite of chemical compounds that consist of several elements. The periodic table is a means of arranging the elements that are known to those that have not yet been discovered. The fact that elements with similar properties are placed in the same group in the periodic table. But for several years the mystery of this similarity in this qualitative behavior has not been solved. Until the end of the 19th century, the atom was considered a small solid ball. When Thomson discovered the electron in 1897. Scientists knew that if the electric current passed through a vacuum tube, a current could be seen in the form of a glowing substance. He did not know an explanation. Thompson noticed that the mysterious glowing spark was heading to the positive electrode. He found that the fluctuating current was made of small particles and parts of atoms carrying negative charges called electrons. Eugene Goldstein said in 1886 that atoms have positive charges. In 1911, Rutherford's atomic theory was when he said that an atom consists of a condensed core with a positive charge of protons, around which a collar of negative electrons rotates around the nucleus. In 1932 James Cadwick discovered a third type of particle, called neutrons. Neutrons. And that the neutrons reduce the electronegativity of the protonate repulsion of the coherent nucleus. And neutrons are the same size as the protons in the nucleus. It does not bear electric charges because it. Neutral shipments. An atom is neutral because the number of positive protons equals the number of negative electrons inside it. And the smallest of the hydrogen atom. Most of the void is atom empty. Because the electrons orbits relatively far away from the nucleus. Each of the different elements is distinguished from other elements by a fixed number of protons. Each atom has an squeeze, its atomic weight, which is determined by the number of protons and neutrons in its nucleus. We must know that the size of the atom is very small. The hydrogen atom is (5 x 10-8 mm) in diameter. If we put 20 million hydrogen atoms in, it would form a particle of one millimeter long. And a hydrogen atom consists of one proton and one electron. A helium atom has 2 protons, orbiting 2 electrons. In general, we find that each atom has a core called a nucleus, which forms almost the mass of the atom, but it occupies a small area the size of the atom itself. Because most of the atom is a vacuum around the nucleus. And in the nucleus, there are smaller particles that are positively charged protons and neutrons. Very light particles called electrons spin around the vacuum around the nucleus. Each element has a fixed, similar number of protons in the nucleus. The oxygen element has 8 protons in its nucleus. Neutrons do not enclose electrical charges G, and it is not necessarily an atom of each element that assumes a fixed number of protons. If atoms of an element carry a different number of rotons, they are called isotopes of the same element. Electrons and negative electrical particles rotate in space around the nucleus. The mass of an electron is equivalent to 1/2000 the mass of a proton or neutron. The interaction or union between the atoms of the elements takes place between the bonding of electrons to form molecules or chemical compounds. Therefore, we find the atomic number of each atom indicating the number of protons in the nucleus of an atom of the element. Oxygen has an atomic number of 8. This means that the oxygen atom consists of 8 protons, and the atomic number of copper is 29, and this means that the atom of the copper element has its nucleus of 29 protons. And the mass of the atom, we find the sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Because 99.99% of the mass of an atom is in the nucleus. So, through the identification of atom components, the explanations of the repeated models in the periodic table were possible. The scientists found that the elements in one group of the table have the same number of outer electrons as the orbits of an atom. The particles were not discovered when the scientists created the first periodic tables. And our previous conversation was about an electrically neutral atom. In fact, atoms can gain or lose negative masses. But the number of protons does not change in the nucleus. If the atom acquires electrons, the atom becomes negatively charged because the number of electrons exceeds the number of protons in the nucleus .. If the atom loses electrons, the atom becomes positively charged because the number of protons in the nucleus exceeds the number of electrons. And every atom has a chrysalis called an ion, so the positive hydrogen is called the positive hydrogen ion, and above its symbol is placed a sign (+), and it is written like this H +, and if the ion of a negatively charged hydrogen atom is written like this (H -) and if the atom is neutral, it is written without a sign (+ or - The atom is written thus (H). In the three cases of the atom, we find that the atomic number and the atomic weight are constant. In isotopes of the element, the number of protons varies according to the element's isotope. Therefore, we find that the isotope of the element changes in the atomic weight, which is the sum of the number of protons and neutrons, and not in the atomic number, which is the number of protons T. So the isotope of an element we find is fixed in atomic number and different in atomic weight. Hydrogen has atomic number 1, atomic weight 1, and Deuterium is the isotope of hydrogen. Its atomic number 1 and atomic weight 2 carry the same information that Mendeleev put in his table. In these modern tables, items that are similar in their properties were placed in the form of longitudinal columns called groups groups or families. And its number is 18 groups. Group 1 in the table includes soft minerals, all of which react strongly with water to give hydrogen gas. Therefore, we find the elements in the modern periodic table arranged from left to right and from top to bottom in the system of increasing the atomic number of elements (the atomic number is the number of protons in the nucleus of an atom). There are more than 90 natural elements on the ground and industrial elements that were created in the table. These added elements have the largest atomic numbers in the table. Because it was brought up through experiments and nuclear reactions. And the newest element present, has 116 protons in the nucleus of each atom. These industrial elements haven't been given formal names yet. The system used is arranged according to the atomic number of the elements. But the vertical arrangement called groups are arranged according to the chemical properties and the physical properties of the elements, and the number of electrons in the outer shells around the nucleus of the element. And putting the elements into groups in the periodic table was not clear cut. Some scientists disagree with simple differences, among them hydrogen and helium. Helium is an inert gas that does not react with other elements. He is included in Group 18 of A noble gas. It also includes neon, argon, and krypton, all of which are inert gases. But scientists who arrange the elements according to the number of electrons in the outermost orbit of the atoms, put helium, magnesium, calcium, and barium in group 2 called the alkaline earth metals that contain two electrons in their outer orbit. The periodic table has been published in many shapes and sizes, but most modern tables used begin with group (column) 1 where the minerals are on the left, followed by group 2 alkaline earth metals. These two groups are followed by rows consisting of ten columns with 40 elements and each column has 4 elements. These ten groups are called the transition metals, and they are groups 3-12. And groups from 13-18, on the right side of the group there is a dividing line above nonmetals, such as oxygen, carbon, and nitrogen, and in the lower left part there is tin and lead. In addition to the presence of two groups divided into two rows. It consists of 28 elements. Each row has 14 items. They are at the bottom of the main table. These elements are rare earth elements (lanthanide, lanthanons, lanthanoids). Because their properties are similar. So much so, that it is difficult for chemists to separate them from each other when they mix together. These two rows are supposed to be placed according to the atomic number between groups 1 and 2 on the one hand, and the mass of transition metals consisting of groups from 3 to 12 on the other hand, to reduce the size of the periodic table. Scientists consider the horizontal rows of the periodic table to be periods that vary in length from the top to the bottom of the table. It includes from top to bottom 2, 8, 8, 18, 18, 32 and 32 elements. These numbers are related to the maximum number of electrons that can exist in the orbit of an atom for any element in its period. And every period in the table has the elements that are not the same in properties, unlike what is used in groups by columns. And the elements that are in the same group as alkali. alkali and halogens, we find that the number of electrons in the outer shell of their atoms is equal to the group number. And the group of elements between group 2 and group 3 transition metals and they are similar in formation of colored compounds. They have different valences and are used as catalysts. Elements 58-71 are known as lanthanides, and the fact that all of these elements are not necessarily rare on Earth. Because cerium is more abundant than any other element and 5 times more abundant than lead. But they are all silver and the most reactive metals. The periodic table of elements is important for scientists and chemistry students to study the elements and their chemical and physical properties, and how they differ in each group. Through the table it is possible to get an intuition about the properties of one element and how to interact with another element. If a student wants to know the properties of an element such as francium, for example, he can identify it through the properties of Group 1. It will know that it is a soft metal that interacts more strongly with water than the element above it. If he wanted to know the compounds tellurium with hydrogen. The two elements will be H2Te because the rest of the elements in the Tellurium group are compounds with hydrogen such as water H2O, hydrogen sulfide H2S and H2Se. Finally, the organization of Mendeleev's table was based on the atomic weight in ascending order. The modern periodic table depends on the ascending atomic number and each element has an atomic number and is not repeated with another element. Because the atomic number is the number of protons in its nucleus. And each element has its chemical symbol. Carbon has its symbol C, oxygen has its symbol O, sulfur its symbol is S, hydrogen has its symbol H, and carbon we find that its atomic number is 6 and its atomic weight is about 12. 1 - Metals: A - Their (natural) physical properties: Luster and luster. - Good conductivity of heat and electricity. High density. Its melting point is high. - Can be pulled to wires. - Slabs can be hammered. B - Chemical properties: - They lose electrons easily. They wear out quickly. The new is rusted, and the silver tread. 2 - Nonmetals: A - their (natural) physical properties: their properties are opposite to minerals - neither shine nor luster. - poor conductivity of heat and electricity, - brittle that crack easily. - Do not pull slack. - Do not touch panels. Low density. Low melting point. B - Chemical properties: - Tend to gain electrons, as metals tend to lose electrons, and non-metals tend to gain electrons. This metals and non-metals tend to form compounds of them . These compounds are called ionic compounds. When two or more nonmetals are combined, they form a covalent compound. 3 - Semi-metals (minerals): Metalloids have the properties of minerals and non-metals a. Their (natural) physical properties: - solid - shiny or matte. - Can be pulled to wires. - Slabs can be hammered. Conduct heat and electricity, but not as well as metals.