Physics (from the Greek word physic "", meaning knowledge of nature) is the science that studies matter and its motion. In addition to other concepts such as space and time, it deals with concrete cosmic properties that can be measured such as force, energy, mass and charge. Physics adopts the experimental method, that is, it tries to explain the natural phenomena and the laws that govern the universe through testable theories. Physics is one of the oldest academic disciplines, as it began its emergence since the Middle Ages and was distinguished as a modern science in the seventeenth century, considering that one of its branches, astronomy, is one of the oldest cosmic sciences at all. Physics has a distinct place in human thought, as it was affected as it had a decisive effect in some other cognitive and scientific fields such as philosophy, mathematics and biology. Most of the developments it has brought about have been practically embodied in many sectors of technology and medicine. For example, advances in the understanding of electromagnetism have led to the widespread use of electrical devices such as television and computers. As well as the applications of thermodynamics to the amazing development in the field of engines and modern means of transport; Quantum mechanics led to the invention of equipment such as the electron microscope; In addition to its devastating effects, the corn age also had important uses in treating cancer, diagnosing diseases and generating energy. Most of today's physicists specialize in two complementary fields, namely theoretical physics or experimental physics, and the first is concerned with formulating theories by adopting mathematical models, while the second is concerned with conducting tests on those theories, in addition to discovering new natural phenomena. In spite of the huge amount of important discoveries made by physics in the past four centuries, many issues still remain unresolved so far, and there are theoretical and applied fields that witness intense research and activity. Note: To consider "physics a branch of mathematics" is completely wrong, because mathematical models are used in physics only to facilitate understanding of physical phenomena. And that the implications of mathematical models in any science of the natural sciences does not interfere with the science of mathematics, so the mathematical physical equation is the language of physics. Physics as we know it today developed from a series of observations collected by ancient civilizations on various natural phenomena, especially astronomical ones, and related to calendar and time estimation, such as the movement of the sun, the roles of the moon, and star formations. The Greek philosophers have come to devise elementary theories to explain these phenomena, by following a logical and purely inferential approach in what is called natural philosophy. Aristotle presented in his book Physics (Physics) the first theories about the nature of motion and forces. These ideas, known as Aristotelian physics, dominated the philosophical tradition for centuries. The Arab-Islamic civilization played a major role in the beginning of the formulation of this science of physics (which was known to Muslim scholars as nature). The legacy of the Greek philosophers was lost by translating it into Arabic, then it was enriched, revised and corrected. Muslim scholars surrounding the knowledge of the first two such as Aristotle and Ptolemy (and others) provided their own theories and many innovations in the fields of astronomy, optics, and mechanics. For example, but not limited to, Ibn al-Haytham is considered the pioneer of optics in his book Al-Mazhar. Al-Battani (858-929) also provided improvements to Ptolemy's calculations about the orbits of the sun and the moon, and Ibn Baja (1095-1138) developed the first laws of motion and the concept of speed. Influenced by the roots of the Arab-Islamic sciences, the development of the scientific method during the seventeenth century led to the laying of the foundations of modern physics by Francis Bacon, Galileo Galilei and Isaac Newton, and its final separation from philosophy. The latter was able to form the basic principles of classical mechanics, and it describes up to now well the laws of motion, forces and energy, at the level of our daily life. This was achieved thanks to his discovery, with Gottfried Leibniz, of one of the most important tools of mathematical physics, the differential arithmetic. In the eighteenth century, during the Industrial Revolution, the concepts of heat transfer, energy exchange, and engine operation developed, and the principles of what is known as thermodynamics and statistical mechanics spread. In the nineteenth century, I discovered the basic laws of electromagnetism and the wave nature of light, as well as the structure of atomic matter and the laws of radiation. With the beginning of the twentieth century, new theoretical formulations appeared in front of the inability of classical mechanics to explain some aspects of light and the dynamics of atomic particles. And Albert Einstein reached to develop the theory of special relativity, which describes objects moving at a speed close to the speed of light and its effects on intuitive concepts of space and time, and then to the theory of general relativity, which describes the nature of the force of gravity and its relationship to the geometry of space-time. On the other hand, quantum mechanics was able to describe the behavior of elementary particles, atoms and molecules. On this scale, physical laws differ from those that are subject to normal-sized bodies. Classical mechanics describes the forces that affect the state and movement of physical bodies. It is often referred to as "Newtonian mechanics" after Isaac Newton and his laws of motion. Classical mechanics branch out into; The science of static or "static" which describes the bodies are static and the conditions for their equilibrium, the science of kinematics or "kinematics" which is concerned with describing the movement of objects without looking at their causes, and the science of kinetics or "dynamics" that studies the movement of bodies and what are the forces that cause them. Classical mechanics is primarily based on the assumption that the physical object to be studied is solid and in point form. On the other hand, continuity mechanics describes the continuous and continuous matter such as solid, liquid and gas bodies, which in turn is divided into two parts: Solids Mechanics and Fluid Mechanics. Solids mechanics studies the behavior of these bodies against many factors such as pressure, temperature change, fluctuation, etc. As it studies fluid mechanics, the physics of liquids and gases, and it deals with many topics, including the balance of fluids in hydrostatics, their flow in hydrodynamics, the movement and spread of gases, as well as their effect on surfaces and moving objects in aerodynamics. One of the important concepts in classical mechanics is the principles of preserving momentum of motion and energy. This prompted the mathematical reformulation of Newton’s laws of motion in Lagrange Mechanics and Hamilton’s mechanics by adopting this principle. The two formulas stand mechanically in describing the behavior of bodies with the same degree of precision, but in a manner independent of the system of forces exerting upon them, which is sometimes impractical in forming the equations of motion. Classical mechanics gives us numerical results and predictions with high accuracy, consistent with the observation, in proportion to systems of ordinary dimensions and within a range of speeds far below the speed of light. As for when the objects under study are elementary particles or that their speed is high, close to the speed of light, then classical mechanics, respectively, replace quantum mechanics and relativistic mechanics. Nevertheless, classical mechanics find room for its application in describing the behavior of minute systems. For example, in the kinetic theory of gases, the laws governing the movement of bodies of normal size apply to the particles that make up gases, which enables the inference of macroscopic properties such as temperature, pressure, and volume. In systems of high complexity in which small changes can produce large effects (such as the atmosphere or the three-body matter) the ability of the equations of classical mechanics to predict is limited. These systems, which have been described as nonlinear, are concerned with the chaos theory. The laws of classical mechanics have created a unified and comprehensive view of natural phenomena that may appear outwardly unconnected, such as the fall of an apple from a branch of a tree or the rotation of the moon around the earth. for example; Kepler's laws of planetary motion, or the speed that a rocket must reach to break free from the Earth's gravitational field (escape velocity), can be mathematically inferred from Newton's general law of gravity. This idea of ??reaching universal laws that can describe cosmic phenomena in all their variations is possible, contributed to the emergence of classical mechanics as an important element in the scientific revolution during the seventh and eighteenth centuries. Electromagnetism studies the interaction between charged particles and electric and magnetic fields. Electromagnetism can be divided into; Static electricity or "electrostatic", which studies electrostatic charges and fields, and electrodynamics, or "electrodynamics" and it describes the interaction between moving charges and electromagnetic radiation. Although knowledge of electricity and magnetism developed separately since ancient times, the classical theory of electromagnetism reached, during the eighth and nineteenth centuries, to determine the relationship between the two phenomena through Lorentz’s law and Maxwell's equations. The latter was able to describe electromagnetic waves and understand the wave nature of light. Static electricity is concerned with studying the phenomena associated with charged bodies in a state of rest, and the forces that they exert on each other as described by Coulomb's law. And the behavior of these objects can be analyzed from attraction or repulsion by knowing the polarity and the surrounding electric field, as it is proportional to the amount of charge and the dimensions that separate them. Static electricity has many applications, ranging from analyzing electromagnetic phenomena such as thunderstorms to capacitors that use electrical engineering. And when electrically charged bodies move in an electromagnetic field, they produce a magnetic field surrounding them. Electrodynamics is concerned with describing the effects that result from that of magnetism, electromagnetic radiation and electromagnetic induction. These topics fall within what is known as classical electrodynamics, where Maxwell's equations explain these phenomena in a good and general way. These theories lead to important applications, including electric generators and electric motors. And in the twenties of the twentieth century. The theory of quantum electrodynamics appeared, which includes the laws of quantum mechanics, and describes the interaction between electromagnetic radiation and matter through the exchange of photons. A proportional formulation provides corrections to account for the motion of objects traveling at speeds close to the speed of light. These phenomena are interfered with by particle accelerators and electrical tubes carrying high voltage differences and currents. After gravity, the forces and phenomena caused by electromagnetism are among the most perceptible in our daily life. For example, light is a visible electromagnetic wave radiating from charged and accelerating particles. To this day, the principles of electromagnetism find many technical, scientific and medical applications. Electrical devices such as radio, resonator, telephone, magnetic suspended trains, optical fibers, and laser devices are just a few examples of these applications that made qualitative progress in human history. Thermodynamics, or "thermodynamics", studies the transfer and transformation of energy in physical systems, and the relationship between temperature, work, pressure, and volume. Classical thermodynamics provides a macroscopic description of these phenomena without delving into the microscopic detail underlying them. Statistical mechanics deals with analyzing the complex behavior of microscopic components (atoms, molecules) and derives from them quantitatively the macroscopic properties of a system by means of statistical methods. The foundations of thermodynamics were laid during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, due to the urgent need to increase the efficiency of steam engines. The understanding of energy dynamics and variables in a given system is based on four basic principles called the laws of thermodynamics. The state equations define the relationship between two types of macroscopic variables that define the state of systems; Dilation variables such as mass, volume, and temperature, and intensity variables such as density, temperature, pressure, and chemical potential. By measuring these variables, it is possible to identify the state of balance or automatic shift in the system. The first law of thermodynamics states the principle of energy conservation, that the change in the internal energy of a closed and static system equals the amount of energy exchanged with the external medium in the form of heat or action. The second law states that heat cannot pass spontaneously from a low-temperature object to a high-temperature body without doing an action. This means that it is not possible to get a job without losing an amount of it in the form of heat. These two laws were reached by the French physicist Sadie Carnot at the beginning of the nineteenth century. In the year 1865, the German physicist Rudolf Clausius introduced the convolution function, and through it he formulated the second law that "automatic transformation in a particular system cannot be achieved without increasing this value in it and around it." Conversion expresses, from a macroscopic point of view, the inability to harness all the energy in a system to do mechanical work. Statistical mechanics describes it as a measure of the chaotic state of the system’s microscopic components of atoms and molecules. Thermodynamics is of great importance in many areas; In chemistry, chemical engineering, biology, energy production and refrigeration. For example, thermodynamics can explain the reasons why some chemical reactions take place on their own, while others cannot. The theory of relativity is a more general mathematical structure than the one on which classical mechanics is founded. It describes the movement of bodies at speeds close to the speed of light, or systems with massive masses, and it includes two parts: the theory of special relativity and the theory of general relativity. The German physicist Albert Einstein's special theory of relativity was proposed in 1905 in a famous paper entitled "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies" based on the important contributions of Hendrick Lorentz and Henri Poincare. This article argues that the special theory of relativity resolves the inconsistency between Maxwell's equations and classical mechanics. The theory is based on two axioms: (1) That the laws of physics do not change by changing the inertial frame of reference of the systems, (2) and that the speed of light in a vacuum is a constant amount and is not connected to the motion of the light source or to the viewer. The merging of these two axioms leads to the assumption of a relationship between two separate matters in classical mechanics, namely space and time, and combines them into a structure called space-time. One of the important implications of special relativism, which appears counter-intuitive though it has been proven by several experiences, is the absence of absolute space or time, that is, separate from the viewer's frame of reference (hence the term relativism). This means that the mass, dimensions and time change with the change of the velocity of the object, which corresponds to the constant speed of light. These phenomena may be imperceptible in the field of velocities in our daily life, and thus Newton's laws remain in force, but they have a significant effect when the speed rises and approaches the speed of light. Another important result is the principle of equivalence between matter and energy, which is eloquently expressed by one of the most famous physical equations: where E is energy, m is mass, and c is the speed of light in a vacuum (2 above the speed of light means that energy is proportional to the square of This speed). In other words, this mathematical formula tells us that every body has energy mass associated with it, and vice versa. General relativity is a theory of a geometric nature, which Albert Einstein separately reached and published on 15/1916, that he unified special relativity and Newton's general law of gravity. This theory states that gravity can be described as a bending in the structure of spacetime caused by mass or energy. Mathematically, general relativity is distinguished from other modern theories that describe gravity by using Einstein's equations of field to describe the spacetime content of matter or energy and its effect on its curvature. And it relies mainly on the stress-energy tensor, which is a geometric object that describes through its components several physical quantities such as density, flow, energy, momentum, and spacetime. It can be said in a simple way that the stress-energy tensor is the reason for the existence of a gravitational field in a given space-time, more generally than what does mass alone in the classical Newtonian law of gravity. One of the first observations that confirmed the validity of the general theory of relativity was that it was able to calculate the apogee of the anomalous planet Mercury, with an accuracy that classical mechanics failed to achieve. In 1919, the English astronomer Arthur Stanley Eddington observed the shifting of starlight near the sun's disk during an eclipse, confirming the general relativity prediction of the bending of light under the influence of a gravitational field induced by supermassive objects. Later, many implications of this theory began to appear in cosmology, some of which confirmed the observations, but it is still the subject of controversy, including the prediction of solutions to Einstein's equations of the big bang, the expansion of the universe, the energy of the vacuum, and black holes. Quantum mechanics deals with systems of atomic or subatomic sizes. Such as particles, atoms, electrons, protons and other elementary particles. Some of the difficulties that faced classical mechanics in the late nineteenth century, such as the problem of black-body radiation and the stability of electrons on their orbits, led to the thinking that all forms of energy travel in the form of unbroken, indivisible beams, called quantums or "quantum". And this concept was formed by the German physicist Max Planck in 1900, and through which Albert Einstein provided an explanation for the photoelectric effect, in which it was found that electromagnetic waves sometimes behave in a way similar to the behavior of particles. The principles of quantum mechanics were developed during the 1920s by a distinguished group of physicists. In 1924, Louis de Broglie came to the realization that bodies also can behave as waves, which is expressed by the duality of the wave and the particle. Against the background of that, two different mathematical formulas were presented: Wave mechanics developed by Irwin Schrödinger involves the use of a mathematical object called the wave function, describing the probability of a particle in a spot of space - and the matrix mechanics created by Werner Heisenberg and Max Born, which describes particles as matrices that change with time. Although the latter does not refer to a wave function or similar concepts, it is compatible with Schrödinger's equation and with experimental observations. One of the most important principles of quantum mechanics was the uncertainty principle that Heisenberg formulated in 1927 and states that we are limited in our ability to measure two specific properties of a particle simultaneously and with a high degree of accuracy. This puts an end to the principle of absolute determinism, which refers to the possibility of accurately predicting the state of a system from its previous state, since quantum phenomena can only be explained in a probabilistic way. This led to a major scientific debate among the greatest physicists of the twentieth century, including Albert Einstein, who opposed this probabilistic interpretation despite his important contributions to the foundation of quantum mechanics. In 1928, British physicist Paul Dirac placed quantum mechanics in its linear and waveforms (matrices) in a more comprehensive formulation within the framework of the special theory of relativity. Drafted the existence of antiparticles was predicted . This was confirmed experimentally in 1932, with the discovery of the anti-electron or positron. Quantum mechanics has had great success in explaining many phenomena such as lasers and semiconductors, and it has resulted in important technical applications, such as diode and transistor, which are the cornerstones of modern electronics. In chemistry, a large part of understanding the dynamics and structure of molecules, the way in which they interact, and the formation of chemical bonds depends on the wave function. Computational chemistry also relies on quantum theories in its mathematical performance to analyze and simulate the results of chemical experiments. In biology, quantum mechanics has been able to explain the mechanism by which energy conversion occurs during photosynthesis in plants and some types of bacteria. As well as the process of vision in animals. Researchers are currently working on many other future applications in informatics, such as quantum coding and quantum computers.