The Portuguese national football team is the official representative of Portugal in the sport of football, and it is ranked 8th in the world. The Portuguese Football Association was founded in 1914 and joined FIFA in 1923. Portugal qualified for the finals very easily, as Portugal had not been defeated throughout the qualifying campaign. Russia was crushed 7-1. And I got seven points easily. This is the fourth time that Portugal has reached the FIFA World Cup finals, after its previous appearances in 1966, 1986 and 2002. Portugal's first international match was in 1921, in which it lost 1 - 3 to Spain, and its biggest victory was in 1994 against Liechtenstein 0 - 15, and the most severe loss was in 1947 at the hands of Britain, 0 - 7. Portugal ranked third in the 1966 FIFA World Cup Finals and ranked second in the 2004 European Football Cup Finals. The coach of the team is Luiz Felipe Scolari: a Brazilian, born in 1948, and has overseen the Portugal national team since 2003. Before that, he led his country to win the 2002 World Cup title, which was organized in Japan. His trophy career began in 1991, when he won the Brazilian Cup with Krishima. In 1994, he moved to coach Gremio, the biggest club in South America, which in 1995 led him to the FIFA Club World Cup title. Notable players in the squad include goalkeeper Ricardo Pereira, Valencia CF and Deco Luis Preto, Captain Luis Figo, among others. The captain of the team is Luis Figo, who retracted his decision to retire from international football, to return to the leadership of the Portugal team again, and Wenger Cristiano Ronaldo, the star of Manchester United, is considered the star of the current team, many expect that he will be the successor of Luis Figo. Cristiano Ronaldo: born in 1985 is considered one of the promising stars to play for Real Madrid, and is one of his offensive pillars. He joined his country's national team in 2003, after his brilliance in the English Premier League. Identification card: The name of the national team: The Portuguese national team The Portuguese story .. Since the twentieth era .. The beginning: the Portuguese national team branched from the Portuguese Football Association, founded in 1914 .. And after he was only supervising the Portuguese league, he faced another task, which is to supervise the national team Portuguese, after it was established in 1921 .. Thus, the first official match for Portugal took place on November 18, 1921 in the Spanish capital Madrid against the Spanish national team, and the match ended with a score of 3-1 in favor of the Spaniards .. The accession of the Portuguese Federation to FIFA was in 1923, that is, after Two years since the founding of the Portuguese national team .. And after 14 years, and exactly on the 25th of May 1947, the Portuguese national team faced its most severe loss in its history, after it was crushed by the English national team with a score of 0-10 .. And what is worse is that the match took place in the Portuguese capital, Lisbon. ... in 1954, the Portuguese Federation participated in the founding of the European Football Association and became a member of it .. However, this did not intercede for him to achieve an achievement in the European Nations Cup, and he failed to reach it in the years 1960 and 1964 .. This year will remain engraved in the memory Every Portuguese, when Portugal was able to achieve a wonderful achievement in the 1966 World Cup in England .. Where Portugal came face to face with Brazil, Hungary and Bulgaria in the group stage .. In the first match against Hungary, Portugal managed to win 3-1 (two goals by Jose) Torres and a goal by Jose Agosto) .. In the second match, Portugal was a competitor to Bulgaria, the final score was 3-0, signed by Jose Torres, Isobio and Ivan Vucov with an own error. The third match, Portugal managed to achieve a surprise by beating Brazil by 3 goals for one (two goals by Isobio and a goal by Antonio Simuice) ) .. And in the quarter-final round, Portugal fell against North Korea, and in a dramatic summit that started with two goals for North Korea in the first twenty-four minutes .. Portugal tried to adjust the result, so it had the will .. The final result 5-3 .. (Super hat-trick by Eusebio and a goal By Jose Augusto) .. In the semi-final round, it was the end of the career. The English team stopped Portugal's march and won it 2-1 despite Eusebio's goal .. The last match for Portugal was in determining the third and fourth places, Fu Portugal defeated its counterpart the Soviet Union, and Portugal managed to win 2-1 with a goal by Eusebio and another by Jose Torres .. So Portugal came out of the World Cup with its head held high, proud of its achievement, and proud of Eusebio, the tournament’s top scorer, with nine goals .. a catastrophic failure after the 1966 World Cup .. The Portuguese national team fell in A deep lethargy after the 1966 World Cup .. The beginning was his failure to qualify for Euro 1968 .. Then the failure to qualify for the World Cup 1970 .. And from this year until 1986 .. Portugal did not taste qualify for the World Cup .. Not even the taste of qualifying for Euro 1968 .. until Faraj came in Euro 1984 in France, where Portugal came again in their group with a goalless draw with Germany, then tied with Spain 1-1 with a goal by Antonio Sousa, then a 1-0 victory over Romania with a goal of Tamagnini Nene .. But in the final half Portugal faced difficulty in front of the country The organizer, France, and despite a double Portuguese from the signature of Roy Jordao .. However, Portugal suffered a 3-2 defeat at the Villordom Stadium .. The World Cup 1986 Portugal finally came, but at a very meager level, and despite Al-Dabba beating England 1-0 by the signature of Carlos Manuel, except A. It suffered two consecutive defeats, the first from Bologna 1-0, and the second from the Moroccan Arab national team, 3-1 ... The only goal was achieved by Diamantino Miranda ... Portugal came last in the group and were excluded from the tournament. The recovery in the late eighties to the end of the twentieth century .. Since the year 1986, the spirit returned to the Portuguese national team, and was able to achieve its best results in the Euro 1996 qualifiers, after it beat Liechtenstein 8-0 in Lisbon .. on the eighteenth of November 1994 .. within the framework European Nations Cup qualifiers .. Then Portugal qualified for the euro, and at the beginning Portugal managed to beat Turkey 1-0 with a goal by Fernando Cotto, then the second 3-0 victory over Croatia with the signature of Luis Figo, Joao Pinto and Domingos Oliveira .. In the third match Portugal tied with Denmark 1 - 1 Portugal’s goal came through Ricardo Sapento .. But in the quarter-final round, Popursky eliminated Portugal’s dreams with a single goal for the Czechs .. the twentieth century .. the Portuguese renaissance .. In Euro 2000, Portugal came in a group that includes Germany, England and Romania .. The first match was exciting .. Portugal beat England 3-2 with goals by Nuno Gomes, Luis Figo and Joao Pinto .. Then Portugal won 1-0 over Romania with a goal from Kostinha .. before Consecau achieved the hat-trick in the Germany-Portugal match, Dedicating victory to the latter 3 - 0 .. In the final quarter, Portugal defeated Turkey 1-0 with a goal by Nuno Gomez .. And in the final semi-final, the French roosters stopped Portugal, with two goals to one .. World Cup 2002 in which Portugal attended .. The first match against Bologna ended after a hat-trick. Paulita and Rui Costa's goal 4-0 .. But the second match, in which Portugal faltered 2-3 in favor of America and then defeated South Korea 1-0 .. Thus ended the series Portugal third in the group in the 2002 World Cup .. which led to the dismissal of the former coach and the use of Scolari as a substitute. Who crushed Kuwait in the coach's first appearance with a score of 8-0 on 11/19/2003 ... in 2004, Portugal organized Euro 2004 ... trying to achieve a title that satisfies its fans ... but the start was bad ... a loss from Greece 2-1 ... Portugal's goal came through Cristiano Ronaldo .. In the second match, Portugal scored a 2-0 victory over Russia with goals from Manish and Roy Costa, before the precious victory that gave Portugal 1-0 to Spain by Nuno Gomez. In the quarter-finals, strikes were decided Penalty is the top Portuguese-English for Portugal in a match whose man was the toughest Ricardo .. The semi-finals were won by Portugal 2-1 over the Netherlands with a goal by Ronaldo and the other by Manish .. In the final, everything was lost with a goal left for Greece that came from a corner kick, in which the Greeks took the title of the Euro .. leaving Ronaldo and his comrades in deep crying .. And left for Portugal World Cup 2006, in which it presented a great level .. After winning 1-0 over Angola (Paulita's goal), Iran 2-0 (Ronaldo and Deco), then Mexico 2-1 (Manish and Simao) .. Portugal moved to the 16th round, which it achieved A difficult 1-0 victory over the Netherlands via Manish .. Then again after 2004 victory over England with a penalty shootout in a match whose champion Ricardo was also blocked by Lampard and Gerrard's kicks .. In the half, Portugal lost 1-0 to France with a penalty kick by Zizou. In the 3rd and 4th places, Portugal lost 3-1 to Germany (Portugal's goal came from Nuno Gomez's ways ...) Euro 2008 ... The Portuguese farce ... in Euro 2008 ... everything was fine at the beginning, the first match ended against Turkey With a score of 0 - 2 signed by Bibi and Raul Merilish ... Then Portugal was able to conquer its Czech counterpart with goals from Deco, Quarishma and Ronald. And ending the match 3-2 in their favor .. And despite the defeat in the third match against Switzerland 2-0 .. However, Portugal qualified .. In the quarter-finals, a concussion occurred in the management of the Portuguese national team after coach Scolari signed a contract with Chelsea, which resulted in Portugal's weakness against the Germans and their defeat 3-2 .. Despite the many attempts that were made, the result remained the same .. and many changes took place: Figo, Rui Costa and Pauletta retired, Scolari left the Seleção and then contracted with Queiroz to train the national team .. 2010 World Cup qualifiers .. The beginning is not fine .. Portugal is currently playing many matches in the midst of the 2010 World Cup qualifiers .. The first match ended with an easy 4-0 victory over Malta, before losing to Denmark 2-3..and then 3 consecutive negative draws. One with Albania and two with Sweden .. In a friendly match against Brazil, Portugal was crushed 6-3 .. in a big match .. He also played a friendly match against the organizer of the 2010 World Cup, the South African team, and the match ended with Portugal winning 2-0. Current .. 18 Miguel Veloso World Cup: 1969 European Nations Cup 0 The coaches did not qualify: Training period Records: Some Portuguese players achieved numbers by which they entered the history of the national team .. whether with their participation .. or with their goals .. such as these: Participations: Participations Player Duration Goals Goals: Goals Player Duration Matches Portugal.