Abu Bakr Muhammad Bin Yahya Bin Zakaria Al-Razi Persian scientist and physician. (C. 250 AH / 864 AD - 5 Shaban 311 AH / 19 November 923 AD), he was born in the city of Rai in Khorasan, Persia. He studied mathematics, medicine, philosophy, astronomy, chemistry, logic and literature . In irrigation, Al-Razi became famous and traveled the country and worked as the president of the Bimaristan al-Mu'tadidi. He wrote many letters in various fields of diseases and wrote in all branches of medicine and knowledge in that era. And the book "Al-Mansouri" in medicine and the book "Single Medicines" which contains the accurate description of the anatomy of the body parts. He was the first to invent sutures, to manufacture ointments, and to author of books on pharmacology that contributed to the advancement of pharmacology. He has 200 books and articles on various aspects of science. Medieval historians of medicine and science recorded different and conflicting opinions about the life of the Arab world, Abu Bakr Muhammad bin Yahya bin Zakaria al-Razi, a philosopher whose works, all in the Arabic language, are distinguished by the originality of research and sound thinking. And he was born in the town of Ray, near the modern city of Tehran. It is most likely that he was born in AH 251 / AD 865. Al-Razi was of the opinion that students learn the medical industry in large, densely populated cities, where patients are frequent and skilled doctors practice their profession. Therefore, he spent the prime of his youth in the city of peace, studying medicine in Bimaristan, Baghdad. Historians have mistakenly assumed that Al-Razi learned medicine after he was old. And I came to know this fact from a text in a manuscript in the Podliana Treasury in Oxford, entitled “Experiences of the Bimaristan,” which was written by Muhammad bin Baghdad in his modernity. ”This text was published accompanied by excerpts on the same subject, which I borrowed from the books of Al-Razi that he wrote after completing his experience, in which he testifies his style After completing his medical studies in Baghdad, Al-Razi returned to the city of Al-Rai at the invitation of its ruler, Mansour bin Ishaq, to ??take over the administration of Bimaristan Al-Rai. Al-Razi wrote for this ruler his book “Al-Mansouri in Medicine” and then “Spiritual Medicine”, both of which are complementary to the other. The first was a disease of the body, and the second was a disease of the soul.Al-Razi became famous in the city of al-Rai, then moved from there again to Baghdad to take over the new bimaristan of al-Mu'tadid, which was established by the Caliph al-Mu'tadid Billah (279 - 289 AD / 892 - 902 AD). Therefore, Ibn Abi Issa'ah made a mistake. In saying that Al-Razi was a messenger for the Bimaristan al-Adadi, which was established by Adad al-Dawla (he died in 372 AH / 973 CE), then Ibn Abi corrected his mistake by saying, “What is true for me is that Al-Razi was older than the state’s support, and Ibn Abi Issa’a Al-Bimaristan did not mention Al-Mu'tadidi at all in Article A. For Mutoul in Al-Razi. He held prominent positions in irrigation and traveled, but he spent the last part of his life in the city of irrigation, and he had blue water in his eyes, then he lost his sight and died in his hometown either in the year 313 AH / 925 AD or in the year 320 AH / 932 AD. Al-Razi's modesty and austerity is evident in the course of his life from his words in the book “The Philosophical Biography,” where he says: “Neither from me appeared to his evil in collecting money and extravagance in it, nor on people's disputes, quarrels and oppression. Rather it is known from me against all of this and denying many of my rights. My condition is in my restaurant, drink, and entertainment. Those who watch this frequently from me may know that I have not gone back to the extreme, and likewise in the rest of my affairs, from what he sees, such as clothing, mounts, servants or maid, and in the first chapter of his book “Spiritual Medicine,” “On the Merit and Praise of the Mind”, Al-Razi affirms that the intellect is the supreme reference to which we refer, “and we do not make him, and he is the ruler, condemned, nor is he the ruler, compelling nor, and he is the subordinate, subordinate, but we refer to matters to him and consider them with him and depend on him.” Al-Razi is a philosopher, and philosophy was a balance by which the scientific matters and theories recorded by doctors in ancient manuscripts over the years were weighed. Al-Razi believed in the philosophy of Socrates the Wise (469 BC - 399 BC), so he says that the difference between them is in quantity and not in quality. Socrates' philosophical biography, he says: Scientists only mention the first period of The life of Socrates, when he was an ascetic and took the path of hermits. Then he adds that he had devoted himself to science at the beginning of his life because he loved philosophy sincerely, but after that he lived a normal life. Al-Razi believed in the continuous progress in medical research, and this is not done, according to him, except by studying the books of the early generations. In his book “Al-Mansouri in Medicine,” he mentioned what this text is: “This is an industry that does not enable a single person if he does not follow the example of his progress that Many things will be attached to it even if all of his life is spent in it because its amount is much longer than the amount of a person’s life. And not only this industry but most industries as well. Rather, those who have realized this industry will achieve this goal in thousands of years thousands of men. He became aware of them all for him in a short time. He became like someone who was of those years’s age and took care of those care. And if he did not consider their perception, how much would he be able to watch in his lifetime. How much is his experience and extracting, even if he was the smartest and most caring people in this section. He did not look in the books and did not understand the picture of the ills in himself before viewing them, because even if he saw them many times, he overlooked them and passed them by forgiveness and did not know them at all. Become better than Hippocrates. " Both Ibn al-Nadim and al-Qifti mentioned that al-Razi had written the names of his books in an “index” and had put it for that purpose. The manuscript copies of this article are known to have been lost along with the lost writings of Al-Razi. The number of Al-Razi's books exceeds 200 books on medicine, philosophy, chemistry and other branches of knowledge. Its size ranges from huge encyclopedias to short articles, and it is worth clarifying here that the severe ambiguity that plagues both Al-Hawi fi al-Tibb and al-Jami al-Kabir. The ancient and modern medical historians have mistakenly considered these two titles as if they were only one book, because of the synonym meaning of the words Al-Hawi and Al-Jami`. Al-Razi's books have been translated into Latin, especially in medicine, physics and chemistry, and the last part of it has been translated into modern European languages ??and studied in European universities, especially in the Netherlands, where Al-Razi's books were among the main references in Dutch universities until the seventeenth century. It is considered one of the most important books of Al-Razi, and he described it as a great encyclopedia of medicine that contains many summaries of Greek and Indian authors in addition to his precise observations and his own experiences. Al-Hawi translated his books from Arabic into Latin and was first printed in Brescia in northern Italy in 1486. He repeatedly printed it in Venice in the sixteenth century AD, and Al-Razi's skill is evident in this monumental author. Al-Razi's historians almost unanimously agree that the book was not completed by himself, but rather his students were the ones who completed it. Galen (approximately 130 AD - approximately 200 AD) composed a book on phlebotomy in three articles, and the first and second articles of this book were devoted to contradicting Aristotle of the ancient school of Alexandria, fourth century BC. AD - the third century BC. M.), then the disciples of Aristotle, and they were all prevented from phlebotomy, thinking that it brings disease. Galen mentioned in the third article what he saw from treatment with intention. The Razi believes that the intent is useful for the treatment of certain diseases . I read Al-Razi's book “On phlebotomy and cupping” fourteen articles - in search of the comparative experience that he recorded in his private memoir “Al-Hawi fi al-Tibb”, and I had published a brief word about it and its summary “that Al-Razi divided a number of patients with Sarsam disease (meningitis) into two groups. Then he dismissed all the members of the first group and left the members of the second group without a phlebotomy, he says: “I deliberately left a group to seek an opinion.” I did not find this interesting experience in the book “The phlebotomy and cupping”, but I was rewarded with new information, which had not been previously published, on the authority of Al-Razi, where he says There was a Baghdad man in Egypt who served the Sultan. He was masterminding I need, that day and age seventy-odd years . I used to spoil it every twenty-five and nearly every day, at all times, and the possibility of al-Razi visiting this elderly sheikh in Egypt was more than the likelihood that this patient would go once in twenty-five days to the city of Rai or to Baghdad. It is interesting for Al-Razi to say in the book “On the phlebotomy and cupping”: “Some of the people I learned about phlebotomy told me that it was difficult for him to remove a woman’s sweat, so he flowed her, rebuked her, and punched her, so her veins emerged, so he spotted her for the time, and he apologized to her and told her about his trick. As he says in the same book: “The one who was reading to me told me that the one who was to be recited was that he had gone away. When the time for Deuteronomy came it was hard for the blood to come out, so he brought the needy people, and everyone referred to what he did not accept. The council attended among the easiest faces after the blood was gone, after the attendance had passed away. He sucked the veins, so he dropped in his mouth at the time. " And if we look closely at Al-Razi's saying: “And the one I was reading on him told me that al-Ma'mun had gone for it,” and then he said, “Some of those I was learning about phlebotomy,” do not tell us that al-Razi studied medicine on a good professor, but he learned phlebotomy when non-physicians were phlebotomy. They practice "partial medicine work". Al-Razi says in this book also, “I saw in the city of peace a man of the son of Ahmad ibn Abd al-Malik al-Zayyat, and his age was little and forty years old. He had a thin body and a yellow color on a purpose. He used to offer him every month or a little more that his body reddened and suffocated as if he himself was Stretching, until he resorted to phlebotomy. And he used to get fifteen dirhams of blood, so he used to feel comfortable at the time. And he was the one who exposes to this the professionalism of blood, not the abundance of it. Also this man had read many of Galen's books to a teacher, and he had no training or Service. " This story tells us the name of a contemporary doctor of al-Razi, who did not combine the study of science with work, so he remained behind in his profession. This is a doctor from the fourth century AH. Al-Razi knew him and how much he learned to make medicine. Al-Razi says in the book “Al-Murshid or Al-Fusul”: “It is not sufficient in the rulings of the medical industry to read its books. Rather, he needs to practice patients. However, he who reads books and then practices patients. He benefits from the experience a lot. He misses and leaves many clues from him, and he does not feel them at all. He cannot be attached to them within the amount of his life, and if most people are practicing for the sick, what a book reader does with the slightest practice, then it will be as God Almighty mentioned: (As if from a sign in the heavens and the earth They pass by it while they are exposed to it. ”(Surat Yusuf verse 105) This is a book with abundant material, and it has not yet been printed. Al-Razi criticizes twenty-eight of Galen’s books, the first of which is the book“ The Evidence ”, the last of which is“ The Great Pulse ”and that the excerpts of al-Razi are from The book “The Evidence” deserves an in-depth study, as the bulk of this philosophical book was lost in the time of Hunayn ibn Ishaq (192 - 260 AH 808 873 CE), who translated what was found from the Greek texts of some of the articles of this book. Hunayn Ibn Ishaq says that he traveled to Alexandria, looking for the rare manuscripts that exist for this valuable book. Al-Razi's criticism of Galen's books is strong evidence of a new trend that is commendable among scholars of the Islamic world, for how many generations have inherited false scientific theories and opinions without anyone daring to criticize or amend them, for fear of breaking the prevailing custom. Al-Razi says in the introduction to the book "Doubts on Galen": "I do not know that many people are ignorant of me in writing this book, and many of them blame me and scold me, or it was rewarding to my sweetening of someone who intends to take advantage of him and take pleasure from him as well, to contradict a man like Galen, in his majesty." And his knowledge and advancement in all parts of philosophy, and his place in it? I find that I am so God knows a lot in my soul. For I have been plagued by meeting someone who is the greatest of creation over me, and most of them benefit me, and by him I was guided, and his impact I pursued, and from his sea I sought. This is an interesting introduction to what we now call book criticism and exudation, and it expresses the truth to a large extent. Galen has the first merit in building the edifice of medicine, as he contributed an abundant share in the general branches of medicine, especially in the sciences of anatomy and physiology, in addition to what was preserved for us in the texts of his books of excerpts from the legacy of the early who had lost most of it. Al-Razi then speaks as a scholar-critical professor, saying, “But the medical industry, like philosophy, cannot accept submission to the presidents and their acceptance, nor their contribution and leaving the investigation on them. Nor does the philosopher like that among his students and those who are educated from him .. As for those who blame me and ignore me in extracting these doubts and speaking about them, I do not rise With it, I do not consider him a philosopher, as he had abandoned the tradition of the philosophers behind his back and adhered to the tradition of the rabble from imitating the presidents and leaving objection to them. " Al-Razi cites a saying attributed to Aristotle, saying, “Truth and Falaten differed - and both of us are friends (except that the truth is truer than Fellaten." Galen himself was a strong tongue, and this is clearly evident to everyone who reads his books. And Al-Razi says about that: “I do not think that anyone escaped from him. Of the philosophers, and none of the doctors is anything but shaken, and the bulk of his words are true to them, but if you wanted I would have said that it is all true. ”Al-Razi believes that“ industries are still increasing and getting closer to perfection over time, and they make what the old man extracted in the long time (within reach) that came From after him in a short time until he rules him, and becomes a reason for him to easily extract others through it, so that he will be like the ancients in this place like the acquired ones, and the like of those who come from a distance, like the heirs who are facilitated by them, they inherited more and more acquisition. ”And I appreciate the great difficulties that everyone will encounter. It aims to publish the book “Doubts on Galen” by Al-Razi scientifically verified publication, due to the fact that in his three manuscripts there are errors, errors, medical and other philosophical terms difficult to understand, and the calligraphy in the three manuscripts is accurate and unclear. How I went back to manuscripts of Galen’s books in search of what al-Razi extracted from them So that I understand what Galen meant, so it opens up to me Mtstghab say Al-Razi. He sufficed here to cite a few examples from the material of the book “Doubts on Galen,” Al-Razi shows in his criticism of the book “The Evidence” what Galen neglected regarding the suitability of the eye to its function by the breadth of those looking in the darkness and its constriction in the light, including his saying (meaning Galen's saying): “I am if one of us blinks The eyes have widened the hole of the beholder in the other, so we know with certainty that it fills the essence of my body. " Al-Razi says in response to that directly: “And (even) this bodily essence did not flow into it except when the other was closed, it would not expand together in one state and narrow in another. We may find all the views widening in the darkness and narrowing in the light. This is one of the things that went. On Galen, he did not perceive him, nor was there any news of his benefit.The benefit in that is that since the light was so influential on the sense of sight that it hurts and disturbs it, and the darkness prevents it from seeing, the eyesight needed an equilibrium from which the vision would fall without harm, so the eye was prepared a body with which it could Its hole widens in one state and narrows in another, but if the seeker is in a position of very brightness, it narrows and reaches from the light as much as it can see and does not hurt. And if it is in the air less light, then it widens to reach from the light also what falls into it. As a man who has an orchard runs to him. The water is in a known culvert so that it does not spoil its abundance and does not shorten its dearth.He placed a plate and a valve on the mouth of this epididymis, with which the water was weighed so that it entered as much as it needed.When the water was lacking, it was removed from the mouth of the epididymis as much as needed and when it increased for a period of time as well as the need. Blinking in the other, because when the first sense, when he missed from the sight with one eye, he wanted to The other eye is to be rectified, so the hole in the prepared eye is expanded to reveal the icy ghost as much as the other eye is limited to it, or as close as possible to that. Like a man who runs enough water to his garden in two streams. Then one of us had an accident, and the other one realized what he had missed of the clogged course. It has been shown that the reason for the widening of one of the sights when the other eyes are closed is not that a physical substance flows to the other, as they may expand and narrow in the event that they are open so that the perception is to reveal the glacier from the sight of what was missed in the other. Al-Razi says: “I have devoted a huge article to this opinion, and it showed that vision is like ghosts in sight.” It is worthy of medical historians to search in the role of books whose manuscripts have not yet been indexed, for this huge article that Al-Razi mentions. Medieval historians confirm the following works by al-Razi in al-Ibsar, all of which are in the ruling of the missing: “A book on the merit of the eye over all the senses”, “An essay on the benefit at the edges of the eyelids always”, “An essay on the cause for which the eyes are narrowed in the light and widened in the darkness.” , “A Book on the Conditions of Sight,” and “An article on treating the eye with iron.” It is known that Al-Razi was a great clinical physician, and in the following text there is also evidence that he was a skillful surgeon. In his critique of the first part of Galen's book "On the Composition of Medicines" Al-Razi says: "As for the book" Qatajans, "a person must make him and amend him with the right to lengthen and repeat the words in these ointments, as if he does not spare time, or does not have a job, he is more deserving of it. Ointments are something that we never use, given our great care in the manufacture of surgeries and treating the bad ones, and we have not seen any of the owners of surgeries who used them. However, a person should also praise him with the purpose of praising and exhort him for what we learned about the treatment of nerve surgeries. This is a great benefit of this. the book ". In the book “Doubts on Galen,” Al-Razi criticizes Galen’s book “In Bahran,” saying: “Whatever knowledge conflicts with action, Galen depicts fevers in fixed or close to fixed images, defining their four times: beginning, increasing, ending and degeneration. Deep doubts occurred, and only those whose experience increased, their care intensified, and their illnesses increased, and how many times Al-Razi saw a fever that began with a shiver resembling a dullness, and its rise escalated, and then became a day fever, and the patient was quickly recovered. Al-Razi enumerates many other cases besides these, then he says about an illness that suddenly struck: “Recently I bathed while I was on a journey, and jaundice appeared on me, which is something that I have never experienced, other than the day of the shift in the eye and in the water, and that is when I saw the water this morning Tonight I said: Look into my eyes, when I saw jaundice in the water. So they told me what it contained. Then it was nothing but good. How much I have monitored in the bimaristan in Baghdad and in irrigation, and in my house, for many years these meanings and the names of those whose matter was based on the ruling of these books, And the names of those whose case took place otherwise (each) separately. The number of those who were ordered to disagree was not a small number, so it should be presented and not taken into consideration, just like the rule of all industries. Rather, it is a lot of thing that a wise sane should not trust him in this way the utmost confidence and rely on it And it is used to say that knowledge is advanced, or that it tends to treat and mediate according to it, because those who were ordered to disagree were on the six hundred of about two thousand patients, and from that I did not warn about what was, except where the matter was clear and strong evidence unless I had any doubt about it. And I stayed for a while, asking by experience and measurement to manage acute illnesses, being safe with him not to have pain Illness by mistake even though it was wrong, not to prolong the duration of the illness whenever it is found. " Al-Razi’s message in this text is clear and clear: People of knowledge and research have the right to question what they read and to believe only what is proven correct by experiment and measurement. Al-Razi often echoed this opinion in his book “On the Properties of Things”. Al-Razi also wrote in the field of religions that he strongly criticized, and his works include: Breaking the Prophets, The Tricks of the Mutanabbi, but the Razi did not deny the existence of God, rather he acknowledged his existence, and said that he gave reason to man to think about it. His bold religious views have been criticized by many Muslim scholars and thinkers, including Ibn Sina and al-Biruni. Al-Razi was a physician and a surgeon, one of the greatest Arab scholars, and he used to read a lot and related science and work. And he had enough courage, so he criticized the masters of medicine in a way that did not agree with the truth as he saw it, and contributed an abundant share in building the edifice of knowledge, with his private opinions and accurate observations.