Real Madrid (Real Madrid Football Team) is a Spanish professional football team located in the Spanish capital, Madrid. Founded in 1902, the team plays in the Spanish League and was chosen as the best football team in the twentieth century, and has won the Spanish League thirty-one times (a record), seventeen times the King’s Cup and a record number of nine championships in the European Champions League. On May 21, 1904, Real Madrid was one of the founding members of the International Football Association (FIFA) and is also a member of the G-14 of the leading clubs in Europe, and currently it has been canceled and replaced by the European Club Association. The team plays all its official matches at the Santiago Bernabeu Stadium in the capital, Madrid. Real Madrid is different from many clubs in the world, as it is owned by socios members and they have run the club's affairs by choosing a president to represent them in running the club since its inception in 1902. On 23 December 2000, FIFA chose the Spanish team as the "Best Club of the Twentieth Century". Real Madrid is the largest club in terms of fan base, according to a study of one of the most prestigious international universities, Harvard University in 2007. It is also currently considered the richest club in the world according to the annual budget. The city of Madrid learned about football through the professors and students of the "Institución Libre de Enseñanza" educational center, who were graduates of Auchberg University from Britain. They founded a team in the city in 1897, called "Football Club Sky," and they played ball every Sunday in an area called "Moncloa" in Madrid. In 1900 the team split into two different teams: one was called the "New Foot - Ball de Madrid" and the other was called the "Club Español de Madrid". The last team split again in 1902, and the "Madrid Football Club", now known as Real Madrid, was founded on March 6, 1902. Three years after its founding, in 1905, the team then called "Madrid FC" won its first official local championship after beating Athletic Bilbao in the final of the Spanish Cup. The team managed to maintain the championship title for four consecutive years (as it was the only official tournament held at that time). The club was a founding member of the Spanish Football Federation on January 4, 1909, when the team was represented by its president, Adolfo Melendez, to sign the founding agreement of the Spanish Football Federation. In 1912, the team moved to its good stadium called "Campo de O'Donnell" after the team was moving from one place to another due to the lack of a private stadium. In 1920, the name of the team was changed to Real Madrid by the King of Spain, Alfonso XIII, where he granted the title "Real" which means (Royal) to the team. In 1929, the Spanish Football League began. Real Madrid led the standings until the last game in the marking, but lost the last match against Athletic Bilbao in San Mames, and thus Real lost their lead and the championship. He finished runners-up to Barcelona at the time, by one point. Real Madrid won the first league championship in its history in the 1931--32 season. He followed him the following season by winning the championship again, becoming the first team to win the league championship twice in a row since its inception. Santiago Bernabeu was elected president of Real Madrid in 1943. During his presidency, the club's team, stadium and sports city were rebuilt after being destroyed by the Spanish Civil War. Beginning in 1953, the Bernabeu embarked on a strategy with high-class players from abroad and among the most prominent talents in Spain, perhaps the most prominent of which was the signing of Alfredo Di Stefano and bringing in the Spanish talent, Francesco Gento. Thus, you are the first multinational team in one team. In Di Stefano's first season, the team won the third league championship in its history after an absence of 23 years, and Di Stéfano won the title of top scorer by scoring 27 goals. After lean years spent by the Royal Club Real Madrid not to achieve any championship since 2003, the club determined to achieve the league championship for this year, and President Ramon Calderon made several mandates to support the team with new stars capable of achieving the dream. The legendary coach Fabio Capello was at the head of this battalion in addition to stars. Several as the best player of 2006 Fabio Cannavaro and his colleague Emerson from the Italian relegation Juventus in addition to Van Nistelrooy, the United and Mills country striker, Mamadou Diarra, the center of Lyon, in addition to the loan of the Spanish gunner star Reyes in the hope of achieving the league. Real Madrid's start was not encouraging, despite their victory over their arch-rivals Barcelona in the White Castle, the Bernabeu, with two goals signed by Raul and Van Nistelrooy, but the team suffered in the rest of the matches, especially against Recreativo, the newly-promoted team that season when it defeated Real Madrid in its white castle by three goals to none. In the winter transfers, the royal club recruited 3 young players from South America, the worst players, Gonzalo Higuain, Fernando Gago, the Argentine, and Marcelo, the Brazilian, who did not exceed the age of twenty years at that time. The Catalan club and Seville managed to move away from the Marinja with teams of close to five points, and after the second round, it was time for the other Clásico in the Catalan capital Barcelona and in the stronghold of Barça Noucamp in this wonderful match, which was destined to witness 6 goals divided between the two teams, which the White Battalion almost won, had it not been for young Lionel Messi, who brought out the fans of Catalonia happy after he scored a draw in the last minute of the match, to end the wonderful match 3-3 After that, it was time with the Champions League and the meeting in the European derby with the Bavarian giants, who witnessed a remarkable advantage for the royal club, but Van Bommel wanted to make the return mission difficult to score the goal The second for his team to end 3 - 2 after two weeks, and in the new stadium, Arena, and at the tenth second, the immortal star of Brazilian football, Roberto Carlos, made a mistake to give Roy MacKay a golden ball to be housed in the net as the fastest goal in the tournament after ten seconds, the Madridians were shocked, so with the great absences they suffered from, they were surprised by this goal Early and with the beginning of the second half, Lucio wanted to prepare for the Kings, so he scored the second Bayern goal. At that point, the shrewd Fabio Capello finally involved the young Samba star Robinho, who did what he had to do and got a penalty kick from which came the first Madrid goal, and in the last minutes Sergio Ramos made a shot that hit the net, which the referee canceled due to a hand touching? ! With that, the Madridians left the European Championship at an early age. After that, the Meringa stars pledged to the league and that it was their only goal, especially after leaving the King’s Cup at the hands of Real Betis, at the same time things began to change. Many of the injured Real Madrid players returned from the injury in addition to David Beckham’s return to his usual level, which made the team regain its luster and started enthusiastically Collect points. On May 26, the white stars were able to ascend the throne of the league for the first time after they played every match for them from the Bavarian team match, provided that the next match was a final match that was full of excitement and enthusiasm. Most of the matches were not decided by the Madridians except in seconds before the final whistle. Almost impossible for them to win over Espanyol, despite the fact that Pandiani, the skilled Espanyol striker, scored 3 consecutive goals against Madrid, the Madrid players had the determination to win the bet and turn the result upside down from 3 - 0 to 4 - 3. The date of the decision and the deciding match on May 9 was a wonderful masterpiece of history and a miracle in the history of football. After the Real Madrid and Al Barsha were equal in points and the Maringa Lions progressed by the results of the matches, two matches remained. The Catalan derby plays in his stronghold of Camp Nou with Espanyol. The 89th minute was a disappointment for the royal club. The royal club is still defeated 2-1 against Real Zaragoza and the Catalan team is still outperforming its neighbor Espanyol with the same result and the league shield was on its way to the Camp Nou castle, but God willing to give a lesson In seriousness and patience, in the same minute, Van Nistelrooy scored the equalizer for the Royal Club, and Ra??l Tamoudo, the star of Espanyol, equaled the Catalans, to turn the result completely in favor of Real Madrid to delay the decision for the last round. May 17, 2007 A day that Madrid will not forget. It is time for the last round. Madrid to meet the Balearic champions Mallorca and Barcelona meet the bottom of the list Khmnastic Tarragonia, and after 45 minutes the first half ended with Mallorca advancing 1-0 and the Catalans ahead of their easy guest 3-0. The second half carried a lot after the La Liga top scorer was injured And Real Madrid, Ruud van Nistelrooy, and after the exit of David Beckham, the English star, Real Madrid was under pressure, but the rookie Spaniard Reyes had another word. The second league, and Reyes confirms with a poisoned arrow in the Mallorcan net that the league is white and that Real Madrid are the champions or the Campions as the Spaniards wish. After the club was founded in 1902, the team used some simple stadiums in Madrid to play matches until it moved to the first stadium called O'Donnell Stadium in 1912. The team has been using it to receive home matches for eleven years. After that period, the team moved to Ciudad Lineal Stadium temporarily, and the stadium was small and received about 8,000 fans. And then the team moved to the first stadium it owns, called the Chirmartin Stadium, which was opened on May 17, 1923, with a match against Newcastle United, England. And in this stadium, which seats about 22,500 spectators, Real Madrid celebrated their first League Championship. After many successes, in 1943, Santiago Bernabeu was elected president of the club, who decided that the Chermartin stadium was not as ambitious as the club and ordered the construction of a new stadium. The new stadium was actually completed on December 14, 1947. And the new stadium, which is now called the Santiago Bernabeu Stadium, which was not given this name until 1955. The first match held on the stadium was between Real Madrid and Portuguese club Plainensis in the opening ceremony of the stadium, which ended with the royal team winning 3-1, and the first goal on the stadium was for Real Madrid player Sabino Baringa. The capacity of the stadium was greatly increased, until it reached more than 120,000 spectators after the 1953 expansion. After a long period, the carrying capacity was reduced due to the updates that were made to the stadium and in the 1998-99 season, the capacity of the stadium was reduced after providing seats for places that are not available in them, in implementation of the European Union instructions that stipulate that the stadiums be equipped with all safety means and replace the parking space with seats in order to Be prepared to receive continental tournaments. And the last modernization of the stadium was by adding five thousand seats in order to reach the current capacity of the stadium, which is 80,400, in 2003. There is a future plan that has been revealed, and one of the most important points of it is covering the stadium with a retractable roof. The Santiago Bernabéu stadium hosted a number of matches and finals, the most important of which were the 1982 World Cup Final and the 1964 European Nations Championship final. At the club level, it hosted the European Champions League finals in 1957, 1969 and 1980. The stadium was also chosen to host the 2010 UEFA Champions League Final. Currently, the stadium’s rating has been raised by UEFA from five stars to the highest rating granted by the organization under the name of the honorary stadium. On May 9, 2006, a new stadium was opened in Real Madrid City, and it was named one of the most important players who wrote their names in gold letters in Real Madrid’s history, Alfredo Di Stefano. This stadium is often used for team training and also hosts Real Madrid Academy matches and Real Madrid Castilla matches. The stadium was opened with a match against the French team, Stade de Remis, as a reminder of the two teams' meetings in the first Champions League final in 1956, and the meeting ended with Real Madrid winning 6-1. Real Madrid goals were scored by Sergio Ramos, Antonio Cassano (two goals), Roberto Soldado (two goals) and one by Jorado. The stadium is currently within Real Madrid Sports City, and the new facility for the team's exercises is located outside the city limits of Madrid in an area called Valdepins. The stadium can accommodate up to 5,000 spectators. Manuel Sanchez Hunteiolo holds the record for the most played player matches with Real Madrid, having played 710 games with the first team between 1983 and 2001. Santillana follows, playing 643 games for Real Madrid. The record for most goalkeeper to play with current goalkeeper Iker Casillas, having played 418 games for Real Madrid. And the owner of the 127 international matches, Portuguese Luis Figo, the player who played the most with their national teams, while he was at Real Madrid. Alfredo Di Stéfano was the team's most-scored player with 418 goals in all official competitions during the period from 1953 to 1964. Di Stefano's 49 goals in 58 matches in the European Championship lasted for decades as the most-scored player in the tournament, until Raul Gonzalez (also Real Madrid player) overtook them in 2005. Di Stefano also has the record for the most Real Madrid players to score in the domestic league championship, for his record of 216. Real Madrid's current goal-scorer is Raul Gonzalez, scoring 224 goals in the domestic league and 300 goals in all official competitions. Officially, Real Madrid announced the highest crowd attendance at the Santiago Bernabéu stadium after the new development was 83, 329 during one of the King's Cup matches in 2006. Currently, the capacity of the Santiago Bernabeu stadium is 80,354. Real Madrid's average attendance in the 2007-08 season was 76, 234, the highest of all European football leagues. Real Madrid has many records, the closest of which is winning the domestic league 31 times (in the 2007-08 season) and also winning the league in consecutive five years on two occasions during the years (1960-65 and 1985-90). The biggest result recorded by Barcelona is (13 Barcelona next to zero for Real) http and Real Madrid has the record for winning the largest European championship (Champions League) 9 times, and also has the record for playing the semi-finals with 21 times. And the historic goal of the Champions League is Raul Gonzalez, with 67 goals. The team also holds the record for participating in the European Champions League in succession during 15 years, from 1955-56 until 1969--70. The € 94 million (more than $ 130 million, £ 80 million) transfer that paid for Cristiano Ronaldo's transfer from Manchester United to Real Madrid in the 2009 season is the highest purchase value in football history. Historically, Real Madrid is the most successful Spanish team, winning a total of 57 local championships, and is also considered one of the most famous teams in world football, as it managed to win a total of 15 international championships to be in third place in the world in terms of winning the official continental championships after it was The first for many seasons. On December 20, 2000, Real Madrid was chosen as the best club of the twentieth century by FIFA. He was also awarded the FIFA Honorary Medal in 2004 for the club's fingerprints in developing football in the world. In addition, Ferial Madrid's kit includes the UEFA Honorary Medal of Honor.