Richard Stallman (born March 16, 1953) is founder of the Free Software Movement, the GNU Project, and the Free Software Foundation. He called for the concept of copyright protection to protect the goals of this movement, and this concept was crystallized with the comprehensive public license for GPL programs. He is also an accomplished programmer who has been leading several projects such as Emax Emax Editor, and Bank G. C. C, and GDB checker are all programs belonging to the GNU Project. Since the mid-1990s, Stallman has been no longer active in the development of the aforementioned programs but has focused his attention on spreading open source software as an alternative to proprietary and closed source software. Stallman says of himself, in his "serious" biography on his personal website, www. stallman. org, published in the first edition of Al-Harka's dictionary in 1983, “I was built and programmed in a laboratory in Manhattan in 1953. In 1971 I moved to the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab. My hobbies are presentation of love, global folk dance, and flying, Cooking, physics, word play, science fiction stories, programming; I magically get paid for this last hobby. A year ago, I got divorced from my PDP-10, which I bonded with for ten years, and although we still love each other, the world is starting to take off in directions. I'm still living in Cambridge, I remember our past together. My name is Richard Matthew Stallman, but it's a long and complicated name, so you can call me RMS, "Stallman is a person who loves freedom, loves lofty principles, hates persecution, and only one visit to his personal website," Looking at the issues that Stallman espouses, as a human being and as a programmer, reveals a multi-faceted, deep personality that aims at all that is toxic in life. In the early seventies, specifically in 1971, when Stallman began working in the artificial intelligence laboratory, he became part of a long tradition, and a community of programmers based on sharing software with its source code without any limits or controls, and its goal was to make the work of programmers and developers more productive. And workers in the laboratory in those days were using a network operating system called ITS that the programmers in the laboratory designed for PDP-10 Io devices, which were used in that era, and this program was written in assembly language. Stallman's job was to maintain and develop the system. In those days, programmers did not give their software names like "free software" or "free software" or "generic source". And programmers in those days allowed private companies and others to use the source code for operating systems, modify it, add to it, use it in their organizations, and even use the ideas contained in this code to create new, better software. In the early eighties, with the advent of personal computers, Digital stopped producing PDP-10 devices as it was no longer compatible with the requirements of that stage, or compatible with the modern technologies available at the time. Shortly before that, the hacker community working in the artificial intelligence laboratory had broken up, and most of its workers turned to a new company, Symbolx, as the laboratory was no longer able to finance its operations. As if this blow was not enough for Stallman, new operating systems such as VAX adopted special operating systems produced by companies in exchange for huge sums of money to license them, and they also forced programmers to sign non-disclosure agreements, preventing the sharing of the source code for the software between developers. According to Stallman's interpretation, the signing of these agreements meant that a person abandoned his fellow man, and gave up the help of his neighbor, and these agreements destroyed a tradition whose origins date back to the beginning of the era of computing and a society based on sublime traditions. And the new law - according to commercial software development companies - is that "if you help your neighbor, you will turn into a pirate. And if you want any changes, modifications, or repairs, you have to beg, beg, beg and beg until you get them. This is of course if we decide that it is in our commercial interest." To do that. " Stallman says in his autobiography that this idea, and the idea of ??commercial programs, is an anti-social, immoral, and inhuman idea, as it denies the idea of ??a person helping his fellow man, and it links this to commercial interests. That moment was a crossroads for Stallman, who was determined at the time to dedicate his life and live for a single goal, the development of free software. Free software is not like public source software, just as the fact that a program is free does not mean that it is free. Software freedom, for Stallman, means making the source code, or the secret recipe for the program, available to the whole world, providing developers with the opportunity to benefit from this source code in developing their own software, and assisting others, provided they announce their changes and make it also public in the source and free from commercial restrictions . This, in turn, will lead to facilitating the transfer of creativity, amplifying its impact, and maximizing its usefulness. Stallman refused to obey and resigned himself, and established the Free Software Foundation, determined to devote his life to it, and made its goal to develop a group of free software that covers all the needs of workers in the field of computing, starting with the operating system kernel, ending with word processors, software development tools, etc. That. Stallman said in an interview with Salon's technical editor. com in 1998, “When I looked into the world of computing and saw the path it started with, I decided that that course would be disgusting to me, that I would spend my life ashamed of myself if I took it, and that if I worked to strengthen the throne of commercial software, I would be one of those responsible for making the world A bad place for those who live. " How much the situation has changed from what it was three years ago when the supporters of the principle of public source software, or open source software, were a group of dreamers, but today they understand the prevailing fashion, and there is a large amount of public source software in the market, and even global commercial companies compete In bragging about the size of the source code that this has made publicly available, Sun, for example, makes 8 million lines of code available to programmers, and IBM spends $ 1 billion on promoting GNU / Linux, and so on. Today, the GNU / Linux system accounts for 25% of the operating system shipments destined for servers. While some attribute this overwhelming success of the revolution of public sources to Linus Torvalds, who became months of fire with knowledge, and his pictures spread in technical and non-technical magazines, the godfather and the true founder of the revolution of public sources (and he hates this name for reasons we will mention later), remains Unknown to many, he lives in the shadows of the office of his charitable organization, which he called the "Free Software Foundation", and works with his small team of 15 programmers to develop an integrated kernel for a "free" operating system from the restrictions of commercial dependency, with which many of these days are bound by it. Software that it claims is free or free, mainly GNU / Linux. This guy is Richard Stallman. Stallman's goal in establishing the Free Software Foundation was to create a community and a new generation of developers that would return software to its philosophical beginnings, that is, the free participation of software without restriction or condition, and also the free cooperation between programmers and users on software development. Stallman says that life in a "free" society is different from life in a "protective", "private", or "isolated" society. In these private societies the way we deal with others is shaped by fear, fear of the thought police or the information police, who are currently represented by them. Commercial Software Producers Association. It was on these principles that Stallman worked day and night for two continuous years. The result of his initial efforts was Emacs, a comprehensive text processor for UNIX systems. Since the Free Software Foundation sells the program as un-tuned source code, different developers from all over the world have worked to add some features to the program, and to tune it to work in different environments. These days, Emacs has become a tremendous program that enables workers within UNIX systems to perform dozens of tasks, whether editing texts, surfing the Internet, writing e-mail, developing software, etc. Stallman calls his software GNU, which is an acronym for GNU's Not Unix, which summarizes his opposition to the UNIX system, which in the 1980s became a private, closed-source commercial system that opposes everything Stallman believes. Since the development of Emax, Stallman and his cohorts (many of whom are volunteers) at the Foundation have developed dozens of free software. Which works under a license Stallman called the General Public License, which states that anyone who owns a GNU program can copy, change, or modify it, and even sell it as long as the source code and the modifications made by these are available to all users of the program Without discrimination. Despite the dozens of software that Stallman and his colleagues developed, which came close to forming an integrated operating system, their system lacked a kernel for this system, which is what they were working on under the name Heard. In the late 1980s, Stallman's efforts inspired a Finn by the name of Linus Torvalds, who created an operating system kernel called Linux and made it publicly available using GPL, and the rest as they say has become a history of contemporary computing. Whereas free software means "absolute freedom" to use the software and its source code, "generality of source" means making the program's source code available to the public from both developers and users, but at the same time restricting their freedom to make modifications or distribute the software. Stallman says that the concept of "software freedom" was distorted in 1998 when some members of the free software community designed to use the concept of generality of source. And for some, the reason for this was because members of society wanted to differentiate between free and free — a good goal. But what annoyed Stallman was that others wanted to set aside the principles on which the free software movement is based, to satisfy businessmen, investors, stock traders, and institutional users who always want technical support. Stallman believes that although companies that produce generic source software want to produce strong and high-quality software, they ignore the basic principles of freedom, principle, and society. Stallman says that Linux magazines are a vivid example of this, as they publish advertisements for commercial companies that produce "non-free" software running within the free Linux system, while ignoring the advertisement of new free software. Although gaining the support of the major corporations for free software is important to Stallman, he believes that it should not be at the expense of the freedom of the software and its users. Stallman believes that the public resource movement has introduced many threats to free software, and the first of these threats is that large companies use free software within non-free equipment, as the companies producing equipment always maintain the confidentiality of the technical details that go into the production of their equipment, which restricts the freedom of users. Free software. The second threat is that some software companies produce non-free software to run within free operating systems, which is tempting to many, but ultimately leads to dire consequences for users, and limits their freedom to make optimal use of operating systems and free software. (Within this classification, much of the software that was produced to run on a Linux system is not free, and therefore it does not benefit the public resource movement in anything.) The third threat is the patents that are placed on the software included in free software, which hinders the sharing of technology, its dissemination, its modification, or at least delaying that. Finally, Stallman argues that in the free software community there is a lack of good free use guides. Once again, freedom does not mean free. In the world of free software, users who introduce modifications to this software must be free to modify the user guide to cover these modifications, without facing prosecution. This can be done by indicating the original author, including a copy of the original user manual, etc. It is for this reason that Stallman argues that, while companies like O'Reilly produce excellent user guides, their lack of freedom, and their adherence to copyright and intellectual property rights, make them a source of threat to the free software developer community. Stallman believes that the best way to confront these threats is to continue to work, strive and even strive for the cause of freedom. Freedom of everything, starting with the human being and ending with the freedom of music, art, literature, journalism, and computer software. Stallmann said in an interview with a German magazine published by slashdot. org in English "When you are campaigning for jihad for freedom, the outcome of the battle depends on what the public or the people see. If enough of these people insist on preserving and defending their freedom, then freedom will prevail in the end." Stallman believes in the principle of constant trying, and renouncing despair and surrender, as he says, “I have accomplished most of my work, questioning whether I can perform the tasks that I have set for myself, and unsure of the competence of my abilities to accomplish the huge tasks that I have thrown upon me. The only defense between what I believe in and the enemy is me. Many times, I surprised myself and won, and won. Other times I failed, and some of the principles that I was protecting fell, so what did I do? I worked and found another principle to protect it, and I began preparing for a new battle. Over time, I learned to look for risks, put myself on the front lines of battle, and invite my comrades to fight with me. After the events of September 11, the political and military hawks in the United States called for changes and amendments to the personal freedoms that the American citizen enjoys constitutionally, taking advantage of In that the state of terror and panic that prevailed in the United States after those tragic events Stallman believes in a saying echoed by Benjamin Franklin, one of the founders of the United States when he said, "The nation that sacrifices, even if it is A little bit of its freedom, to protect itself from fear, is a nation that does not deserve life. ”In order to urge Americans not to sacrifice their basic freedoms, Stallman publishes the following short article: The worst injuries that can happen to nerves are secondary injuries — that is, those that occur in the hours that follow. After the initial injury, the body responds to the injury by killing more nerve cells. Researchers are currently working on ways to prevent these secondary infections and reduce the severity of the overall infection. If we are not careful, the deadly attacks that occurred in New York and Washington will lead to secondary effects worse than the immediate effects of these attacks, especially if the US Congress adopts "preventive measures" that rob Americans of the freedoms they enjoy and defend. I am not talking here about searching travelers at airports, or searching their luggage, as long as these searches will be limited to weapons, and do not result in keeping special records about the movements of people and travelers, they are just a nuisance and do not infringe on personal freedoms. But what worries me is that the government is using these events to spy on all aspects of an American's personal life, including phone calls, emails, and our personal movements. Today, some people are calling for the introduction of software such as those that scan the faces of airport pilots and match them electronically with databases containing details of known terrorists in the world. There are some tech industry tycoons who are passionate about such solutions. But I am wondering if face recognition technologies will succeed where humans have failed. I doubt it. However, this will not prevent the intelligence agencies from calling for such schemes and others that call for spying on human lives, and the only way to prevent them is for the public to oppose this trend. What is more, the government began calling for the need for a loophole in the encryption software and the clutter of data through which they could decrypt encrypted messages. Meanwhile, Congress has granted the US President full powers to use the army and force to retaliate against those who carried out these attacks. Retaliation may be justified if the aggressors can be identified and targeted accurately, but Congress has a responsibility to examine decisions and scrutinize them, and granting the president such powers in the hour of anger is what led to the US involvement in the Vietnam War. I ask everyone to contact their representatives in Congress, and our unelected President, and let them know that you do not want your personal freedoms and civil rights to be the next victim of terrorism - do not wait, the bill is about to get approval.