The FIFA World Cup is the most important competition held by the International Federation of Football Associations (FIFA). The FIFA World Cup has been held every four years since 1930 (with the exception of the 1942 and 1946 championships, which were canceled due to World War II). In 1950 it was the fourth session after being interrupted for twelve years due to World War II, and it happened in magnitude in Brazil, but Brazil's date with the cup was not estimated, as Uruguay won it and Jules Rimet handed the trophy himself after he had to go down to the stadium and search for the captain The winner. Uruguay, like Italy, was preparing to take the cup and keep it for her if she won it for the third time, but the world waited 20 years for someone to take it. The year 1954 was a hospitality for the Swiss and the (Western) Germans won, and the beginning of their career was just as it was the beginning of the Brazilian march in 1958 in Sweden. Brazil continued their campaign in the second cup, to intensify the competition to win the Jules Rimet Cup for the third and final time for that cup. But Brazil's journey was interrupted by the 1966 championship when England won the landlords and the fans the cup to prevent them from keeping it even for four years, and the Brazilian dream was fulfilled in Mexico in 1970 and they kept the cup when they beat Peru, but the cup was stolen and it was not found as it was found in 1966. It discontinued the tradition of giving the trophy to whoever won it three times. After a twenty-year absence from the first place on the podium, the Germans had the honor of carrying the newly-shaped trophy and their third victory, and for their good fortune, it was in their land. The 1978 Cup was held in Argentina and the host won the 1982 Cup in Spain for Italy. The 1986 Cup was in Mexico again, but it went to Argentina and its star, Maradona. 1990 German Cup in the Italian country. And the fourth Brazil Cup in America in 1994. The host for the first time, although it hosted his second, won the Cup, to join France for the honor board. This was the sixth time in the history of the tournament that the host country won, but the seventh did not happen as Brazil won the tournament hosted by Japan and South Korea. 32 teams will participate in the World Cup, divided into 8 groups, each group has 4 teams, and two teams from each group will qualify for the next round. The Brazilian team is the record holder in winning the World Cup, winning it 5 times in 1958, 1962, 1970, 1994 and 2002, followed by the Italian team, which scored 4 times in 1934, 1938, 1982 and 2006 and the Italian team is considered the first team to score The championship was twice in succession when it won in 1934 and 1938, then the German national team when it won in 1954, 1974 and 1990, all in the name of West Germany. The 1990 World Cup was the last World Cup in which Germany represented the East and West teams, as in the 1994 World Cup they had united. The World Cup is widely watched, as the channels that transmit the World Cup reached 208 channels, which is considered a large record, while the number of viewers of the 2006 World Cup final between France and Italy reached one and a half billion spectators ((a record number)), while studies say that the number of viewers of the tournament matches combined amounts to The number of 64 matches has more than 40 billion spectators. The first international football match was held in 1872 between the Scottish national football team and the England national football team. At this point the sport was rarely played outside of Great Britain and Ireland. When football began to increase in popularity around the world at the turn of the century, it was considered a show sport (without medals) at the Olympics in 1900 and 1904; Football has become an official competition in the Olympic Games since the 1908 Summer Olympics. The event, planned by FIFA, was for amateur players only, and football was considered an exhibition game rather than a competitive sport. Great Britain (represented by the amateur England national football team) won the event in 1908 and 1912. After FIFA was established in 1904, there was an attempt by the federation to organize an international football tournament between nations outside the Olympic framework in Switzerland in 1906, and this was the first start of international football. As the Olympic event continued with matches between amateur teams, Sir Thomas Lipton organized the "Sir Thomas Lipton Cup" in Turin in 1909. The Lipton Championship was between clubs (not national teams) from different nations, each of them representing the entire country. The competition is sometimes described as the First World Cup, and the tournament contained the highest level professional clubs, participating from Italy, Germany and Switzerland, but the English Football Association refused to be associated with the competition and avoided sending professional clubs. Lipton invited West Oakland, a Howe club from County Durham, to represent England instead. West Auckland won the championship and returned in 1911 to successfully defend their title, and the trophy was given in perpetuity, under the rules of competition. In 1914, The FIFA has agreed to recognize the Olympic tournament as a "global amateur football tournament", and takes responsibility for managing the event. This paved the way for the first intercontinental football competition in the world, in the 1920 Summer Olympics, when the Egyptian national football team (who was eliminated from the first match) competed with thirteen European teams. The gold medals won by the Belgium national football team. Subsequently, the Uruguayan national football team won the Olympic soccer championships in 1924 and 1928. In 1928 the FIFA decided to organize its own international tournament outside the Olympic Games. With Uruguay being the official football heroes of the time twice, and to celebrate the centenary of Uruguay's independence in 1930, the FIFA made Uruguay the host nation for the World Cup. The 1932 Summer Olympics held in Los Angeles did not include football as part of the tournament schedule due to the low popularity of soccer in the United States, while American football became increasingly popular. The FIFA and the International Olympic Committee also differed over the status of amateur players, so football was dropped from the Games' schedule for that Olympiad. FIFA President Jules Rimet planned the inaugural World Cup tournament to be held in Uruguay in 1930. The national federations of the selected nations were invited to send their representatives, but choosing Uruguay as the venue for the competition meant a long and costly journey across the Atlantic for Europe. Indeed, a European country did not send a team until the two months preceding the start of the competition. In the end, he convinced the teams of Belgium, France, Romania and Yugoslavia to make the trip. In all, 13 countries participated in the tournament, seven from South America, four from Europe, and two from North America. The first two World Cup matches took place directly, in which the French national football team and the United States soccer team, who defeated Mexico 4-1, and Belgium 3-0, respectively. The first goal in World Cup history was scored by Lucien Lorraine of France. In the final, the Uruguayan national football team beat Argentina 4-2 in front of a crowd of 93,000 in Montevideo, and Uruguay became the first country to win the Cup. The first tournaments of the FIFA World Cup were the most difficult due to transportation problems between continents and war, and few South American teams were able to travel to Europe in 1934 and 1938, where the Brazil national football team was the only one from South America to play in the two tournaments, The 1942 and 1946 tournaments were canceled due to World War II. And the 1950 FIFA World Cup was the first in which the British countries participated, and the British teams withdrew from FIFA in 1920 because they refused to play with the countries that fought them in World War I, and the tournament witnessed the return of the Uruguayan national football team, the World Cup champion. Football 1930, and she would have won the title again. And in the World Cup tournaments between 1934 and 1978, 16 countries competed to win the World Cup, except for 1938 and 1950 when some teams withdrew after qualifying, and those tournaments were played with 15 and 13 teams, and most of the participating teams were from Europe and South America, with Little participation from North America, Asia, Africa and Oceania, and these teams were transit points for South American and European teams, and until 1978, few teams qualified beyond the first round, such as the United States soccer team in 1930, qualified for the semi-round. Final, the Cuban national football team qualified for the quarter-finals in 1938, the North Korean national football team qualified for the quarter-finals in 1966, and the Mexico national football team qualified for the quarter-finals in 1970. In 1982, the number of participating teams in the World Cup was increased to 24 teams, and in 1998 they were increased to 32 teams, which made many teams from Asia, Africa and North America qualify for the finals, and Oceania seats were not increased, And in those years, countries from those regions were able to achieve success, as many of them skipped the first round, such as the Mexico national football team, which reached the quarter-finals in 1986 and reached the advanced stages in 1994, 1998, 2002 and 2006, and The Moroccan national football team, which reached the first round in 1986, and the Cameroon national football team, reached the quarter-finals in 1990, and also in the same tournament, the Costa Rican national football team reached the first round, and the Nigeria football team reached the first round in The 1994 and 1998 championships, and the Saudi national football team reached the first round in 1994, the United States soccer team reached the first round in 1994 and the quarter-final round in 2002, and the South Korean national football team ranked fourth in 2002 FIFA World Cup, Senegal national football team reached the quarter-finals in 2002, Japan soccer team reached the first round in 2002, Australia national football team and Ghana national football team reached the first round in 2006 , And in spite of that it is elected Europe and South America remain the strongest in those tournaments, for example all the teams that reached the quarter-finals in the 2006 FIFA World Cup were from South America and Europe. In the 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, 198 countries participated in it. Three countries did not have the opportunity to participate in the qualifiers, namely East Timor, Bhutan and Comoros (Comoros and East Timor). They were not members of the International Federation of Football Association during the holding of the draw. Qualifying). There is the FIFA Women's World Cup, and the first tournament was held in 1991 in China. From 1930 until 1970, the championship trophy was the Jules Rimet Cup, which was given to the champion of the tournament, and before 1946 it was called the World Cup, but in 1946 the cup was named after the Jules Rimet Cup, and after that The Brazil national football team won the 1970 FIFA World Cup, and this victory was the third victory in their history. They were allowed to keep the cup, and the trophy was stolen in 1983, and it has not appeared yet, and it seems that the thieves who stole the cup have done Brother-in-law. And after the 1970 FIFA World Cup, a new World Cup was created, called the World Championship Cup, and seven FIFA experts from seven countries evaluated 53 designs, and finally the design of the Italian sculptor Silvio Gazzanega was chosen, and the height of the new cup was 36 cm and made It is of 18 karat gold, weighing 6175 grams, and at the bottom of the cup there is a sculpture of the names of the teams that have won the cup since 1974, and the new cup will not be given to any team regardless of the number of times it can be won, and the winning team keeps the cup to the tournament that It was followed by, and then given a cup similar to gold-plated, and the Argentina national football team, the German national football team (West Germany), the Brazil national football team and the Italy national football team won the new cup twice, while the French national football team won the new cup once, The trophy was not replaced until the place designated to engrave the names of the winning teams is over, and it will be in 2038. Qualifiers for the second World Cup in 1934, World Cup qualifiers were held regularly, and the qualifiers were held in the six regions of the world (Europe, Asia, Africa, South America, North America, Oceania), and in a tournament cup FIFA determines the number of teams Which qualify from each continent, and in general this determination will be according to the strength of the teams on the continent. The World Cup qualifiers begin two years before the tournament, the first three years, and since 1938 the host team qualifies directly, and previously the champion of the previous competition qualifies directly for the tournament, but this system was canceled in 2006. Tournament And after 32 teams qualify for the World Cup, these teams compete for a whole month in the host country, and the competitions begin in the group stage, followed by the knockout stage. The group stage consists of 8 groups, and all four teams play in a group and the first and second qualify from each group, and in the second round in which the competitions are held in the form of knockout, and if the tie continues between the two teams, overtime is used, and In the event that a tie continues in overtime, the two teams will proceed to a penalty shoot-out. The issue of hosting the World Cup in the beginning was a controversial matter, as choosing where to play the finals was difficult, as the trip from South America to Europe lasts more than three weeks, and the decision to assign hosting the 1930 FIFA World Cup to Uruguay led to the participation Four European countries in the competition, and in the two World Cups that followed this tournament, they were set up in Europe, which led to the withdrawal of the Uruguay national football team and the Argentina national football team. After the 1958 FIFA World Cup, and to avoid other problems, FIFA adopted a rotation system in hosting the World Cup between Europe and South America, which lasted until the 1998 FIFA World Cup, until Japan and South Korea submitted a joint request to host the finals in 2002, which is the first tournament to be held in Asia, and the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa will be the first tournament to be held in Africa. A vote will be held about hosting the FIFA World Cup, and in the vote for the 2010 and 2014 tournaments, the vote was between the countries of the federation of one continent, and the 2014 FIFA World Cup ™ will be held in South America, the first time to be held in South America since 1978 FIFA World Cup, and in 2004 the South American Football Association voted to give Brazil confidence in hosting the World Cup, but in 2006 Colombia decided to enter the competition to host the 2014 FIFA World Cup. And in the 2018 FIFA World Cup, no continent has been chosen to host the World Cup, and there are many countries that have expressed their willingness to host the World Cup, such as Spain, Australia, Mexico, England and (Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg combined) statistics and records in FIFA World Cup Soccer.