Historical introduction to the Solaris operating system The Solaris operating system was built on several operating systems branching off the UNIX System. In order to understand together what is meant by this, let us follow Unix from the beginning of thinking in its design until now. The story began in the United States of America, when AT&T's Bell Labs company began working with MIT to create a MULTICS (Multiplexed Information and Computing System) operating system, which roughly means an information and computing system together. This was in favor of General Electrics to run a particular Mainframe workstation. The Mainframe Minicomputer is a single mainframe computer and users are connected to it through terminals, which is a screen and data entry tool, and the station usually takes a large price and space, and therefore it was only found in large companies and In universities. Therefore, thinking about adding the ability to the operating system to allow more than one user to work at the same time Multi - User and the ability to manage and implement more than one operation together in what is known as Multi - tasking or Time - Sharing, these two ideas were included in the design of the system since The beginning and they have been improved and developed over time. Also, the idea of ??securing information and controlling the entry of any user could not be entered into the user뭩 environment, textual or photographic, without writing the name of the registered user account in the system뭩 information base with his password, in what is known as Login Authentication. ). Then appeared in the period of workstations known as Microcomputers or Workstations, which are smaller in size and cheaper than their predecessor, due to the technical development and their emergence coinciding with the spread of computer network technologies that connect work stations together by an electronic means of communication. However, it differs from personal computers, which are equipped to collect pieces from the shelf from sales centers, and for this reason the price of personal computers is cheaper than work stations. Bell Labs split from the MULTICS project in 1969 to direct its business towards a new goal. It is worth noting that Honeywell began purchasing the computer business sector from General Electric in 1970, including the MULTICS operating system, which Honeywell continued to support until 1985. In 1971, one of the Bell Labs engineers, Ken Thompson, after several experiments, such as designing a game on the MULTICS system, rewrote the system using the Assembler programming language, and introduced several modifications to the system that made it simpler in design and more effective, and it was called UNIX System to run on a PDP-7 mainframe central workstation. Some think the name UNIX was taken from MULTICS by changing the word Multiplexed to Uniplexed in a joke by one of Thompson's colleagues. Then the word changed from UNICS to UNIX. Dennis Ritchie, an engineer, developed a C compiler program in C Language for the PDP-11 processor, and Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson collaborated in rewriting the UNIX System operating system in C language to work on that station, and then they published a search for UNIX operating system in 1974. After the research was published, requests poured into AT&T to obtain a copy of the system, and universities and companies were obtaining with him the written source code for the UNIX System program, and the main reason for distributing system licenses for free was administrative complications between AT&T and the government. The company was able to enter in an official capacity in the computer market at that time, and that was a direct cause of the tremendous development that took place in the system by professors, university students, and employees of various companies. Certified copies appear, such as UNIX Version 6, accompanied by the user manual and the program's written material. BSD system has great influence in SunOS system, UNIX SVR4 system and thus in Solaris system. Berkeley University, California, USA, had obtained the UNIX Version 6 license, and because the program's written material UNIX Source Code was present, the university was able to greatly develop the system and issued a version (1BSD) Berkeley Software Distribution version 1. x, in 1977, followed by 2BSD and 3BSD, respectively. And they were all running work stations. In 1981, 4BSD appeared with several distinct ideas and programs, including:  Virtual Memory Management: I developed the system's ability to deal with memory. Vi editor: Text file editor.  C shell: developed from the Bourne shell used with UNIX v6.  Pascal Language Compiler: a program for designing programs in the Pascal language.  TCP / IP networks protocol: which was supported by the US Department of Defense during the beginning of thinking about developing and spreading the computer network. These new ideas and innovations made 4BSD the best of its time, making Sun produce SunOS compatible with it. The versions now in existence as of 2007 are: OpenBSD and NetBSD. The importance of Portability or Portability is that it was one of the important factors in establishing the computer network after that because it made the process of setting up the operating system on more than one device more easily. It is the ability to download the system and transfer it from one device to another so that there is no need to write the entire program again, provided that the system is compatible with the components of the device that it will work on, the most important of which is the microprocessor, and you only need the following: 1 - C program Compiler so that it produces programs and system processes that are compatible with the design of the Processor Architecture of the new workstation. 2 - Writing the tool drivers and the device drivers used in the workstation 3 - Writing the workstation software such as (memory management and processing operations) and now the C compiler written by Dennis Ritchie was intended for the workstation PDP - 11 was not suitable To load the system on a different workstation such as Interdata 8/32. A colleague named Steve Johnson designed another compiler suitable for the transfer process on any device called the Portable C Compiler, and for several years it remained the basis for all compiler programs for multiple UNIX versions. We go back to AT&T, since 1982, when the version of the Unix III system was released, it started asking for a fee for the system license, and the program material was no longer distributed with it. Then, the UNIX System V version was followed by its successive Releases: 1, 2 and 3. In cooperation with Sun, AT&T released UNIX System V Release 4, commonly known as SVR4, in 1989, to incorporate all the changes to BSD, SunOS and Microsoft's Xenix version. The SVR4 version included several important tools, including TCP / IP, C shell, Korn shell, UFS and NFS file systems, a new virtual memory system, Open Windows imaging environment, and also defining tools on x86 processor devices, with added support for standards Standard POSIX and X / Open. AT&T continued producing versions until the SVR4. 2 After the formation of USL in 1991. In 1992, USL was sold, with it the right to own the UNIX System V operating system, to Novell, which began releasing its own production of UNIXWare, until it was forced to sell some of its own materials, and the brand and the right to grant certificates for the UNIX system transferred to X / Open in a year. 1994 It sold the UNIX system and program material written to SCO Group in 1995. There is a disagreement between Novell and SCO over their respective shares in technical rights. By 1993 most copies in the world had their producers basically certified to SVR4. In the eighties of the last century, two versions of Unix became very popular, namely 4. 3BSD and SVR3 were incompatible, meaning they were very different and that was a bother for all programmers. Scientific bodies began to try to issue unified specifications that are published in the form of scientific evidence or a standard. These include: 1 - POSIX (IEEE 1003). 1 Standard) 2 - X / Open Portability Guide 3 - Single UNIX Specifications 4 - Open Group Base Specifications 5 - File system Hierarchy Standard The first serious attempt to standardize the two versions into one agreed copy was from the IEEE Foundation, and the project name was POSIX or Portable Operating System Interface for UNIX, which in Arabic means "a portable operating system interface for UNIX." The POSIX committee issued its own standard in 1988, called IEEE 1003. 1 And the idea of ??the release was that any program designed to work on UNIX using the steps specified in this Standard Edition would be valid on any existing UNIX version. Their last release until 2006 was IEEE Std 1003. 1, 2004 Edition X / Open Company was formed in 1984 with the primary goal of introducing standard products to be disseminated to the public to increase compatibility between technological tools and programs. Initially, without agreement with IEEE, X / Open published its standard specification X / Open Portability Guide or XPG, which was more general than POSIX and was explaining the requirements for a system similar to UNIX. XPG3 was published in 1989 and XPG4 was the last version of this standard specification in the year 1989. 1992, on which the Single UNIX Specification was based mainly and one of the results of those specifications was with the IEEE 1003 guide. 1 or POSIX, the formation of what was known as OSF OSF / 1 In 1988, some companies formed an economic alliance called the Open Software Foundation or OSF, as a reaction to AT & T's alliance with Sun in producing SVR4 in an attempt to break AT & T's monopoly on the system. Running UNIX. Companies such as:  Apollo Computers  Groupe Bull  Digital Equipment Corporation  Hewlett - Packard or (HP)  IBM  Nixdorf Computer  Siemens AG  Then Philips and Hitachi joined and this organization produced OSF / 1 operating system in 1990 which was adopted On the POSIX standard mainly and not on this system, they had many standard products such as:  Motif, which is a standard product that is a GUI Widget Toolkit, which is an essential toolkit in building the Common Open Software Environment (COSE) in 1988. AT & T and Sun, along with some other companies, have entered into an alliance named UNIX International, or UI, to offer open standards. This was a reaction to the emergence of OSF, which appeared against them after their collaboration on SVR4. After a period, specifically in 1993, in order to protect the share of UNIX in the workstation market from the increasing threat from Microsoft and its Windows 3 system. 11 for workgroups and what follows. The two parties met in an initiative to unify efforts in the field of standardizing UNIX system specifications in what was known as COSE or the Common Open Software Environment. Among the members of this united team are several companies from both sides, including:  HP  IBM  SCO  USL  Sun. These members represented the large companies in the market for systems similar to the UNIX system, as well as the companies that own the technical right in the UNIX System and the resulting versions. There were several areas in which they identified interest in defining common specifications for them, including:  A common desktop environment  Network tools  Graphics tools  Audio and video files display programs  System management. The team's seriousness in creating unified specifications for a UNIX operating system or something was announced. It's called Single UNIX Specifications. One result of these efforts is the design and implementation of the Common Desktop Environment (CDE) by HP, Sun, IBM, and Novell. It is a GUI environment built using the X11 protocol released by MIT in 1984 and the MOTIF Toolkit previously released by OSF. Use CDE afterwards by HP and Sun. In 1994 the UI and OSF teams united into a single institution that retained the name OSF, and to differentiate between it and the old OSF team, some call it The new OSF. It so happened that X / Open bought the Trademark trademark right for the UNIX system and the Novell certification entitlement in 1994. X / Open published the UNIX 95 Brand standard guide to clarify the standard specifications for the UNIX system or the Single UNIX specification version 1 in 1995 in the year 1996, OSF joined forces with X / Open to form the so-called Open Group and they issued the UNIX 98 Brand the second version of the standard specifications guide for the system UNIX or Single UNIX Specification version 2 (1998 Edition) in 1998, and in the Single UNIX Specification v3 for the year 2001, the specifications were standardized with specifications, and in 2004 the UNIX standard specification guide was published to correct several problems in the previous version entitled The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6 IEEE Std 1003. 1, 2004 Edition. An important note is that using this standard guide, you do not need the program material written by UNIX Source Code by AT&T to design your UNIX system. Filesystem Hierarchy Standard is the file system standard for operating systems called UNIX System - Like operating systems, meaning Unix-like. Initially, it was concerned with the GNU / Linux system from 1993 to 1996, then in its subsequent versions it was circulated to other systems in cooperation with the BSD System Development Group. The current release (from 2004 to 2007) is FHS 2. 3 You can get a guide on it from a website. During the 1980s, Sun Microsystems released a proprietary operating system called SunOS, which is BSD compliant as mentioned before. It then teamed up with AT&T USL to release the UNIX System V Release 4 (SVR4) in 1989. Sun then released an operating system version under a brand name called Solaris. Scholars believe that Sun relied on SunOS and SVR4 together to produce and develop this new system while shifting design direction towards SVR4, which became the best and most advanced at its time. Solaris version 2 appeared. 0 in 1992, which includes the version of SunOS 5. 0 to run on SparcStations and SparcServers powered by Sparc workstations. The relationship between AT&T and Sun has ended with the completion of the SVR4 project, meaning that everything that follows is a Solaris 2 version. 0 versions produced by Sun did not copy any of the modifications that occurred in the SVR4 releases. The following x. After Solaris 2 version. 6 Change the number of the next version to Solaris 7 and after that 8, 9 and 10 Sun Microsystems takes care of each new version in compatibility with previous versions of Solaris while adding new features to the system at the same time sometimes by taking advantage of free programs from GNU or from the Open Group and Sometimes it's an invention of Sun herself. Sun was using a visual user environment called Open Windows by relying on SunView, NeWS, and X windowing system protocols. The Open Windows environment has been in use since SunOS 4. 0 and up to Solaris 8, and was added to the SVR4 system as well, then replaced by Sun in Solaris 9 with the CDE and GNOME environments. Sun then upgraded the GNOME Desktop Environment in Solaris 10 to the new JAVA Desktop Environment. Sun Microsystems produces several types of copies in each version of Solaris, including: 1 - Sparc version to work on SparcStation stations, which is known to use a central Sparc processor. Which was built using RISC 2 technology - version (x86) to work on PCs that use the Intel x86 series core processor and from (386 processors, 486, 586 (Pentium) and 686) 3 - version (AMD64) to work on high-end CPUs 64 bit The most important thing is that the Solaris OS version is a free version that you can download from Sun's website (up to this point in 2007) 1 - 6 GNU / Linux or just Linux (including a dispute between Richard Stallman and Linus Torvalds) since POSIX was published After that, XPG and SUS became easy for all programmers to create programs to work on the UNIX system environment according to the unified specifications, and even create an entire operating system as we saw the attempts of OSF a while ago. And from the early attempts that started with a simple idea and then slowly evolved over time until what was known as the GNU project and the Linux operating system paid off. GNU Project In 1983, Richard Stallman, a former engineer at MIT, established the GNU Project (or (GNU Not UNIX)), under the umbrella of a foundation established by the Free Software Foundation or Free Software Foundation. And the main goal is to create free programs that allow the programmer and the user to add any modifications that are consistent with the terms of the project. The project was divided into several phases: First: Designing and distributing useful programs for the user Second: Creating an operating system on which all the programs belonging to the GPL project work, because the number of UNIX users spread over a large scale was large and due to the many features of this system, it has stabilized. Opinion that the operating system is similar to UNIX. Until 1990, the members of the GNU project had finished designing many programs and tools that work on such a system. But they had not yet finished designing the kernel of the system and were in the process of working on a kernel of the system called HURD, and they had not yet completed it because it required a lot of time and effort from them because of its complex design idea. You can try a system running with that kernel named Debian GNU / HURD after downloading it from the Debian website. Some GNU products are now used in a variety of systems, especially in Solaris. Examples include Bash Shell and GNOME Desktop Environment. Linux kernel Linux Kernel In 1991, a university student named Linus Torvalds completed the design of an operating system kernel that was named Linux after that. The reason for this is that Linus was using the MINIX system, which was designed by Professor Andrew Tanenbaum, author of the famous book Modern Operating Systems. The Minix system was completely devoid of the UNIX System programming material. Tanenbaum was refusing to have a student make any modifications to his system, which prompted Linus Torvalds, who wanted to try some of his ideas to design a new operating system kernel. Linus designed this kernel to be as compatible as possible with the POSIX standard guide, and he had purchased a copy of this manual after he started designing. In the beginning, Linus used to download the Linux kernel through the MINIX system running on the computer. The kernel of the Linux kernel was designed to run on a PC running an Intel 386 processor but is now able to work on most other CPU architectures such as SPARC, PowerPC, and PA - RISC (you can go to www.opensuse) to confirm this. org) GNU / Linux Distribution Linux Kernel volunteered to allow the tools and programs of the GNU project to work on it, and in agreement with the project members, the Linux kernel was licensed under the GNU General Public License (or GPL) that protects the freedom of the program and its standardization. The classic Linux kernel includes:  The Linux Kernel  User Interface 1. CLI text command interface: Bash Shell 2 example. GUI Graphic User Interface: eg KDE and GNOME  GNU programs and tools or (Utilities and applications) There are many versions of the Linux operating system for several different bodies and companies such as: Redhat Linux, Fedora Project, SUSE Linux, Mandrake Linux, Debian GNU / Linux . And Linux has been used to operate computers and in some mobile cellular phones, and as an operating system for real time OS programming. GNU / * BSD After adapting the GCC and C language library of GNU, known as the GNU C Library or glibc, to work with the kernel of the NetBSD and FreeBSD operating system, it became easy to replace the kernel linux kernel with the kernel BSD kernel, which is known as the GNU / BSD Distribution. This is different from the BSD system's use of some GNU programs, as this new system is still in the process of designing all of its components except the kernel of GNU design. And members of the Debian project are pioneers of this new pilot project. If you go on their site, you will find an operating system named Debian GNU / BSD in the design phase.