The Twenty-Eighth Summer Olympics were held in Athens, Greece. Over a period of 17 days from 13 to 29 August 2004, with the participation of 10,625 players and 5501 teams from 201 countries. In 2004 the Olympic Games returned to Greece, and for the first time in Olympic history, 201 Olympic committees supervising teams from 201 countries participated, with a total of 301 sports competing for more than the Sydney Olympics with 2000 games. Watch up to 3. 9 billion people watched the games on TV and watched the Olympic Games in Athens entering women's wrestling for the first time at the Olympic Games. Athens was chosen to host the 2004 Olympics after competing with 4 other cities, which are Rome, Stockholm, Buenos Aires and Cape Town, and the news of Athens' choice to host the Olympics was announced in Lausanne on September 5, 1997. The Twenty-Eighth Summer Olympics was the second organized by the city of Athens, and the official mascot of the session was named Pivos and Athena, and they are brother and sister and bear the names of ancient Greek gods. Pipefos is the god of light and music known as Apollo, while Athena is the goddess of wisdom and protector of Athena. The Olympic Organizing Committee secured the Olympic Games and the centers concerned with monitoring the Olympic sites and traffic through about 293 surveillance cameras, 3 helicopters and a balloon for surveillance from the air, in addition to early warning aircraft from NATO and NATO ships that were roaming the coasts off Greece, As well as some 70,000 policemen and military personnel. Some believe that the construction of the new Athens International Airport and the metro system greatly contributed to Athens' victory in hosting the Olympic Games. Greek official figures confirmed that the cost of the projects implemented in Athens amounted to 11 billion dollars, at a time when these projects during the Sydney Australian session in 2000 did not exceed 2. 6 billion dollars. Among the Arab celebrities whose names were announced to carry the Olympic torch: Hussein Fahmy, Yousra, Laila Alawi, Hala Sidqi, Rania Alwani, Muhammad Rashwan, Thabet Al-Batal, Muhammad Naseer, Ibrahim Al-Moallem, Hatem Zakaria, Hasan Al-Mestawawi, Ahmed Nasser. These names were chosen from among the 3,600 names who carried the torch for a distance of approximately 300 meters for each person. It is worth noting that the Olympic torch was launched from Athens on March 25, 2004, after which it traveled across the five continents of the world in a journey that lasted 78 days, and after Greece the torch stopped in Australia, the place of the last Olympiad in Sydney in 2000 and the torch passed through the cities that witnessed the Summer Olympic Games Including Berlin, where the torch was first introduced in 1936, it is also worth noting that the method of transporting the torch differs from one country to another, as it was transported by trains, planes, cars and on the back of elephants as in the Indian city of New Delhi and on the back of camels as in Cairo the opening ceremony was held on August 13th of 2004, which was prepared by the director of Greek animist Demetris Papaioano. The opening ceremonies were watched by 72,000 spectators who were present at the Athens Olympic Stadium, in addition to about 4 billion people on television. A pictorial excursion of scenes from the history of Greece and the history of Athens hosting the Olympics, featuring 9,000 dancers and performers in the opening ceremony. The opening ceremony began after going down to 28 (the number of the previous Olympic Games) with the sound of heartbeats in an alarming voice, after the countdown ended the lights went out, the fireworks went off, and Olympic rings were lit in the middle of the Athens Olympic Stadium. These rings were floating in the water. The ceremony was inspired by the history of the ancient Greek and Greek civilization. A child was sailing in a boat towards the Olympic rings representing the participating countries. After that, the suggestive and expressive dances began on the inside of the stadium. Several ancient Greek deities were embodied in the ceremony. The rights to broadcast the opening and ending ceremonies were entirely exclusive to the American company, NBC in Arabic, the National Broadcasting Company. Female participants who represented ancient Greek deities had been obscured by NBC because it was almost naked. Blacked out to avoid any wrongdoing by the US Federal Communications Commission. After the completion of the performances inspired by the Greek civilization, artists began to enter and some concerts began. Then the countries began to enter (202 countries, originally 220 countries were invited to be represented in the Olympics for political purposes, but the number of countries that participated with their players and athletes was only 202 countries) arranged alphabetically according to the Greek letters, which made China, the Philippines and Finland among the last countries to enter. The entry of the Afghan delegation after a long hiatus with the participation of women was warmly welcomed by the attendees, and the entry of the Iraqi delegation was also greeted with warm applause. And South Korea entered under one flag, which embodies the unity of the two countries despite their differences, as well as East Timor and the Republic of Serbia for the first time in the Olympic Games. Finally, the Olympic torch was lit by the beloved Greek player in Greece, Nicholas Kaklamanakis, a kitesurfing champion and gold medal winner in the 1996 Olympics, who was raised with transparent ropes to the level of the torch and lit it. After that the fireworks set off and the party ended. There were about 1500 meters of paint on the pitch to direct the pedestrians and 7,000 surveillance devices inside the ears of the security men. During the opening ceremony, the special security airship called Phipas was seen flying at an altitude of 1200 meters and carrying 13 people and was equipped with accurate cameras to monitor any security movement Unexpected and that special security airship was able to continue flying for hours even if it was breached by bullets. It is worth noting that the most invited from world leaders and its former leaders sat behind bulletproof glass during the opening ceremony. There were 7,000 soldiers, 25,000 police, 3,000 beach border guards, 3,500 private security contractors, and 1,500 gunmen responsible for providing security, and their budget was about $ 1,200 million. I usually started choosing a doll as the emblem of the Olympics in Mexico City in 1968. It was a spotted tiger, and that tradition was continued in the subsequent sessions, where an animal or any phenomenon related to the heritage of the host city was chosen. These slogans were widely known since the 1980 Moscow Olympics, and the bear Misha became a global symbol, where Misha made a heavy appearance at the opening and closing ceremonies. . As in 1896 or in 2004, Athens, Greece, chose the olive branch, which symbolizes peace and friendship, to express the spirit and purpose of the Olympic Games. The aim of the logo was not complexity, but was associated with the spirit of aluminum games, so the slogan was simple and abstract, bright and captivating. The blue and white are coordinated together and are the same colors of the Greek flag. The olive branches are in a circular shape as a symbol of peace, and at the same time embody Athena’s inclusion of the world in the modern era. Two dolls were chosen instead of one in the Athens Olympics, and they symbolize Athena and Vios. According to Greek mythology, Vious is Athena's big brother. Athena is the goddess of intelligence, so the capital of Greece bears her name, and Vioos is the god of light and music, according to the design. The two amulets have two large men each, a long depth, and a small head, one of whom wears a dark yellow outfit and the other wears a dark blue outfit, their heads and legs in gold. The organizers of the Olympiad were inspired by the idea of ??a puppet from two dolls that were found through archaeological excavations in the seventh century. The organizing committee chose this slogan, believing that the slogan represented the meanings of “participation, brotherhood, equality, cooperation and fair play.” This winning doll was among 200 competing dolls. Designed by a team of 6 people, including an expert in ancient Greek history. The choice of this symbol was not uncomfortable for a group calling itself the Greek Group of Friends of the Origin and considered the doll an insult to the ancient Greek heritage and they filed a lawsuit against the organizing committee, demanding an amount of 3 million euros. Other criticisms directed at According to some critics, the two dolls look like the condom or two victims of a nuclear bomb explosion in late March 2004. Some Olympic projects were still incomplete, and the Greek authorities announced that the roof of the main swimming pool would not be built. The Olympic Stadium in Athens, which will be the opening and closing ceremonies, ended only two months before the opening of the matches, with a lack of final equipment. The glass roof of the inauguration stadium designed by Spanish engineer Santiago Calatrava has been modified as an additional future plan for the stadium. Other facilities, such as the trolley line connecting the airport and the city stadium, were largely not completed two months before the Games began. This situation made the completion of sports facilities one of the most turbulent tournaments in terms of completing facilities on time, but the Greeks announced that they would be ready by July - August 2004. Indeed, all sports facilities were equipped at the beginning of August 2004. Athens Olympic Stadium was equipped and opened, as well as the Athens Olympic Sports Complex. Other sports facilities were also equipped at the announced time. The modern train network linking Athens and the coast where some water games were held were also prepared. The development of the metro network and the Athens streets was successfully completed. Thus, Greece has responded to all criticism and apprehensions by equipping all its sports facilities to the highest level. According to the divisions of the Olympic Committee, the 2004 Olympic Games consisted of 28 different sports, which are as follows: As usual, Arab achievements came in the Olympiad with some successes, perhaps the most prominent of which is Hisham El Guerrouj achieving two gold medals in the distances of 1500 and 5000 meters to enter the history of the Olympiad through its wide door, as it is the second A person in the history of the Olympiad collects the golds for these two distances after the achievement of the Finnish runner Bafornormi, who had won two races for the same distances during the 1924 Paris Olympiad, the Iraqi football team almost won the bronze medal for football but lost in the match set for the 3rd place And the fourth and bronze medal with a score of 1 - 0 when he met the Italian national football team. It is noteworthy that the Iraqi national team received wide attention among critics of the difficult conditions the country is going through. Through the history of the participation of Arab teams in the Olympic Games, Arab contestants won 62 medals, including 19 gold, 16 silver and 27 bronze. On an individual basis, Egypt appears at the forefront of the Arabs with 21 medals, including 7 golds, and occupies the forty-seventh place in the world. Arabs won Olympic medals since the Amsterdam Games in 1928 and continued almost without stopping, but the comparison between 5 Arab Olympic medals in Amstradam (1928), and 7 Arab medals In Atlanta (1996) and 10 medals in Athens (2004) give an idea of ??the slow progress or stuttering around the place for Arab sports, especially since the Arab medals have receded almost from the beginning in only 6 individual sports, namely athletics, boxing, wrestling, weightlifting, judo, And diving. Those who won the Olympic medals in the Arab world came from nine countries: Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Qatar, Djibouti and Kuwait. As for the Arab medals table, we also do not forget the gold medal, which the Arabs were able to take with the power of money, but unfortunately, a scandal occurred in the Olympic Union, had it not been for the intervention of Samanrash, the President of the Federation, and after the intervention of the UAE to save the scandal in the list. Jack Sizzo’s case, and he earned a lot of money from it, to close the case and be silent on the evening of August 28, 2004, and after 17 days of competition, the closing ceremony began at Athens Olympic Stadium. The last Olympic medal was crowned, which is the marathon medal of Italian Stefanua Baldini, after which the flag of each competing country began to enter one after the other, followed by the players of each country. This was followed by short words from the organizers and the Olympic Federation. One of the most important paragraphs of this ceremony is the exchange of the Olympic flag between the Mayor of Athens and the Mayor of Beijing, the next host of the Olympic Games in 2008, the Mayor of Beijing delivered a speech expressing the Chinese culture, followed by a musical performance by the Chinese Twelve Girls' Band. Both the Greek and Chinese national anthems were played during the exchange, and upon the completion of the exchange the 28th Olympic Games were officially declared over. And the Olympic torch was extinguished. This was followed by a concert that included many Greek singers and many athletes at the stadium holding paintings to form various graphics during the completion ceremony.