The Umayyad Mosque, the Umayyad Mosque, or the Great Mosque of Bani Umayyad, a mosque in Damascus, Syria, is one of the masterpieces of Islamic architecture, located in the heart of the old city. It has a rich history in all eras and civilizations, it was in the Old Testament a market, then it was transformed in the Roman era into a temple established in the first century AD. Then turned with time into a church . When the Muslims entered Damascus, Khalid bin Al-Walid entered by force, and Abu Ubaidah bin Al-Jarrah entered peace. Half of it became a mosque and half a church. Then the Umayyad Caliph Al-Walid Ibn Abd al-Malik in the year 96 AH (corresponding to L) transformed the church into a mosque, rebuilt it anew, clothed it and decorated it with mosaics, miniatures, inscriptions and the best mosques in the history of Islam. And in the Umayyad Mosque, the first minaret in Islam, called the Minaret of the Bride, it today has three minarets, four gates, a large dome, the dome of the eagle, three domes in its courtyard, four niches, the scene of Othman, the scene of Abu Bakr, the scene of al-Husayn, the scene of Erwa, huge mosaic frescoes, halls and a museum, inside the tomb of the Prophet Yahya, peace be upon him and next to it The hero Salah al-Din al-Ayyubi lies near him and has many shrines and shrines of men and famous people of Islam, and the most important celebrities in the history of Islam, the conquerors, and a large number of companions, sultans, caliphs, kings, rulers and the most senior Muslim scholars prayed there, and it is the first mosque that a Roman pope entered when he visited Damascus. This was a year when Pope John Paul II visited him, and the mosque has a rich history in all ages before Islam and in the Islamic era. The Umayyad Mosque was not the first temple built on this stretch of the heart of Damascus. Historical and archaeological studies have revealed an ancient Aramaic temple of the Syrian god Hadid, who was worshiped in Damascus in the first millennium BC. It was one of the greatest and holiest temples, and it was visited by believers from all over the Aramaic regions in Syria. It was built on a mound about ten meters from the city level, and it was climbed up to it by stairs. The temple is surrounded by two walls, one of which is external, the second is internal, and the first has two luxurious entrances from the east and west. Some of their columns are still standing and indicate this huge temple. After the Romans took control of Damascus, the city was one of the most important cities and an important center of civilization, and the temple turned into the name of the Damascene Jupiter Temple. It is likely that the changes following this transformation were not many. Despite the writings indicating that it developed widely during the era of the Seleucids and the Romans. The remains of this temple are still present to the west of the Umayyad Mosque, where the remains of the Roman (Corinthian) columns and the front of the main arch appear in the temple. During the reign of the Roman Emperor Theodos the First - the temple was transformed again into a church in the name of the Church of Saint John the Baptist, whose tomb is located inside the mosque, also known by the name of the Prophet Yahya. The Umayyad Mosque in Damascus is the oldest, most beautiful and most complete Islamic cult that still preserves its origins since the era of its creator Walid bin Abdul Malik al-Khalifah The reformer who ruled from 86 AH - 96 AH / - and during his reign was devoted to reconstruction and construction in the Islamic countries, and building the mosque in the capital of his state, Damascus, was one of the most important matters to him, and he used in his architecture the architects and decorators from the people of Levant, who were credited with Building many buildings in Damascus and allocating a lot of money to him and ordering them to be the best and most luxurious buildings, and he had that, so the Great Mosque of Damascus became the most important building in the Islamic State, and the Caliph sent the architects to Medina in the days of Governor Omar bin Abdul Aziz, and by order of Al-Walid to rebuild a mosque The Messenger Muhammad in the style of the Great Mosque of Damascus. The Great Mosque was built in Damascus after the conquest of the Levant, in the southeastern side of the ruins of the Roman temple of Jupiter, which was established in the first century AD, and in the wall of this temple was established the first mihrab in Islam that is still standing in which the companions prayed with Khalid bin Al-Walid and Abu Ubaidah Al-Jarrah, the two leaders who conquered Damascus and the elite of prominent figures and scholars of Islam, and Khaled gave the country's inhabitants his time by preserving their properties, temples, their homes, and the edges of the Eternal City. In the era of Muawiyah bin Abi Sufyan, a ruler and then the first Umayyad caliph, he used to pray in this mosque, enter it through the Roman tribal door and still stand in the qibla wall of the mosque. Muawiyah had established for himself the Green Palace adjacent to the wall of the ancient mosque, and Muawiyah had also created in the mosque his own compartment, which was the first compartment in the history of Islam. And the place was in the wake of a violent earthquake that came on the temple of Jupiter, and the Temple of Naos, which is located in the middle of a large courtyard surrounded by a high wall penetrated by four doors on the four sides, was surrounded by another wall built with columns. The Christians of Damascus used this temple as a church, and they entered through the same door that It became the Muslims enter their mosque in the east. It was not easy for the Muslims to remain in their capital, Damascus, which came to rule the widest state in the history of Islam, and their mosque would be temporary in Damascus. The Umayyads began expanding and completing the construction of the Great Mosque in Damascus and making it a mosque befitting the capital of their state, the Umayyad state, so they expanded its courtyards and beautified it with inscriptions, mosaics and decorations, and decorated with the most luxurious And the most beautiful lanterns and others, as well as they did in other cities such as Medina, Aleppo and Jerusalem. Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan built the Dome of the Rock mosque there, at the place where Umar ibn al-Khattab prayed when he came to Jerusalem and the Umayyads were interested in architecture. He started building the Great Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, after he had agreed with the owners of the Church - the Temple to provide them with an alternative, and thus the builders were able to benefit from huge quantities of accumulated temple stones, and from its marble columns and crowns to erect a huge mosque befitting the greatness of the Islamic state, and depending on the planning that he put The Messenger Muhammad (when building his first mosque in Medina), and this plan was based on dividing the mosque into a prayer house and an open courtyard. Al-Walid retained the lower part of the qibla wall, restored the outer walls and doors, and created the sanctuary of the mosque roofed with a dome, arches and rows of columns. Established corridors surround the courtyard of the mosque . He built a huge silo in the four corners of the mosque, but a later earthquake hit the two northern minarets, and it was replaced by a minaret in the middle of the northern wall, and the mosque had three minarets, two at the ends of the southern wall, and one in the middle of the northern wall and called the minaret of the bride. These square silos are the origin of the minarets that It moved from Damascus to North Africa and Andalusia, and we see its clear influence on the minarets of Kairouan, Koutoubia, Hassan, Seville and others. These lighthouses or silos were not present in the Roman era, confirming that the complete resemblance that we see between this temple and the Temple of Zeus called the Fort of Solomon near the Syrian coast, nor was the list of those four spacious halls, called the scenes that became part of the seat of Umayyad rule with parts Others, west and south of the mosque, are still standing today, and were intended for mail, the house of money and letters. Historians talk about the reception of the Umayyad Caliph of Musa bin Nusayr and Tariq bin Ziyad, who returned from Andalusia to Damascus, and behind them the kings of the Ghouta and princes, this reception that took place in the sanctuary and in the western hall of the mosque, and in facilities that existed in the western region, which is today called the muskiah. Caliph Sulayman bin Abd al-Malik added the shrine in front of the mihrab in 2005. In the Abbasid era, the governor of Damascus built the dome of money located in the square, which was designated to put the state's funds, and in the year the Dome of Nawfara was built, in the square, in front of the crossed wing. In a year, the mosque was exposed to a fire that broke out in a neighboring house and spread to the mosque, and it was no longer possible to control the fire. The restoration and repair of what was destroyed due to the fire were subsequently restored and repaired with the efforts and funds of the elders and the wealthy of the city. The mosque seems to dominate the old city of Damascus with its mission, evidenced by the Eagle Dome, and with its three minarets, which were built at a later time over the lofty Umayyad silos, as is the case in the Moroccan silos. During the reign of the Seljuk Prince Tuch, his minister ordered repairs at his expense in the Eagle Dome, as well as the four pillars and arches above it, the roof of the mosque and the shrine. In the year the north wall and the eastern side of the mosque were restored. In 2005 the northern wall was also restored from the western side. In 2005, a large distinctive clock was placed at the eastern gate of the Umayyad Mosque. In the year Saladin ordered the restoration of two pillars of the great dome called the Eagle Dome, and the northern minaret, which is the oldest among the minarets in the history of Islam, and a lighthouse was added to it in the era of Saladin. During the reign of Zahir Baybars, the pillars of the mosque were cleaned, their crowns wiped with gold, and the marble and mosaic sheets were repaired, and the northern wall of the sanctuary was also paved, making the mosque a very pompous and a kiss for the onlookers that could not be matched by any mosque or mosque in the Islamic world. In the era of the Ottomans and above the silos, the eastern minaret was built in the era of the Ayyubids and then the Ottomans, and the western minaret was built by Sultan Qaytbay. In the year 1414 AH / President Hafez al-Assad ordered a major restoration campaign for the mosque and its many annexes and pillars and buildings while preserving its original style, wonderful mosaic paintings, inscriptions and decorations. From one side outside the walls of the mosque, the most important Roman ruins of the temples were revealed before the mosque was established and they were restored and taken care of. The reopening of the mosque by President Hafez Al-Assad after a new survey was completed and all ancient Islamic and historical monuments were recorded and documented. Because Islam commanded by a Sunnah of the Prophet . The mosque did not maintain the shape on which it was built, as it was subjected to many fires and earthquakes that changed its features greatly. The Umayyad Caliph Umar Ibn Abd al-Aziz thought about removing the appearances of luxury from him, which he saw as a departure from Islamic teachings. However, the people of Damascus and the dignitaries of Damascus defended the decoration of the mosque, so Omar changed his intention and continued the mosque with its adornment, majesty and treasures. It was also said that a Roman man fell unconscious when he saw the greatness and majesty of the mosque. When he was asked about the reason, he said: “We are the people of Romans. We talk that the Arabs will remain little, so when I saw what they built in Damascus, I knew that they would have a period of time that they would remain. That is why what happened to me happened to me.” So when he told Omar the story, he said: (I do not see the Damascus mosque but anger against the infidels) . Although Omar bin Abdulaziz was convinced of the necessity to preserve the beauty and decoration of the mosque, the disasters did not spare the beauty of the building or the effort exerted in it, and the most important of these disasters were the fire in 461 AH / and the fire in 1311 AH / which went to many of the mosque's decorations and important monuments. A general fire took place on all the beauties of the mosque and its beautiful decorations and inscriptions that existed since the days of Al-Waleed and remained unchanged until it was renovated for a year, then earthquakes and fires ensued, and he was neglected once until the apparent king came, so from the beginning of his reforms he cleaned the mosque and washed its marble and brushes and returned it to a mosque For worship and science, and decorated with gold, mosaic panels, inscriptions, and decorations. One day in the year 1311 AH / a great fire broke out in the roof of the mosque on the western side from a fire that fell from the hookah of one of the workers who were repairing the roof and the fire lasted for two and a half hours, and it came on the roof of the mosque and its walls, doors and blockage, and only the western scene was spared. And this huge fire destroyed the Ottoman Qur’an that was sent by Caliph Othman bin Affan to the Levant when he wrote the Qur’an. People began to remove the rubble from the mosque, and after the cleaning process was completed, they started collecting donations and the people raced to the generosity to restore the greatness of the mosque. In the year 1314 AH / the restoration of the mosque began by order of the governor, Nazim Pasha, the governor of Damascus and under the supervision of a committee formed for this purpose, headed by the head of the state board of directors, Ahmad Pasha al-Shamaa. Golden. The foregoing is not all that befell the Umayyads, as the mosque was also exposed to a large number of fires and earthquakes that inflicted various damages on it, and the fires, with the exception of the last ones, extended to it from the houses and markets attached to it, which some interested people saw that they conceal its beauty, distort its appearance and endanger it, which requires They were removed, and the walls of the Umayyad Mosque had already been exposed from the south and west sides, so that almost all the buildings that were invading it were removed, allowing you to view it from the outside, not just from the inside. And after all the events, restorations and additions that passed over the mosque, it was every time a lot of decorations, ornaments, inscriptions, mosaic panels were done, and paving the squares with marble, ornamental stones, gold plates, decorated and ornate ceilings, and many additions, and the mosque today is one of the most important symbols of the Islamic world at all. The area of ??the whole mosque is 157 x 97 m, the area of ??the sanctuary is 136 x 37 m, and the area of ??the courtyard is 22. 5 x 60 m in the middle of Damascus, and the mosque has four gates, Bab al-Barid from the west, Bab Jeroun from the east, and Bab al-Kallasa from the north. The door of the increase from the south and opens from inside the campus . As for the courtyard, it is surrounded on three sides by colonnades and tall columns of 15 height. 35 AD, and from the south, the doors of the sanctuary are opened, which have become closed by wooden doors topped by stained glass moons with wonderful inscriptions and decorations. The arcades rise on a row of superimposed arches, two small arches above each large arch, and carried by huge square masts and columns, two columns between each of the two masts at the sides, totaling 47 masts and columns. It forms the fronts of the arcades and the facade of the sanctuary, which is composed of a triple front with an open window on either side of it with two circular windows, and under the front is a square façade in the middle of which is a large arch with three windows. Two huge square pillars. On both sides of this façade, the superimposed arches extend nine arches to the right and the same to the left to the east. From the portico, 24 arches open onto the courtyard, and nine arches from the eastern and southern galleries. As for the sanctuary of the mosque, it is composed of 24 similar arches that extend crosswise parallel to the tribal wall, interrupted in the middle by a middle wing extending from the main front door to the mihrab. This middle wing is covered with a tan roof. In the middle of it rises the dome of the Eagle, which consists of a hemispherical dome made of laminated wood, and an eight dome with 16 windows open. The dome rises from the ground of the mosque 45 meters and is 16 meters in diameter. In the campus of the mosque there are four mihrabs, the original mihrab in the middle of the tribal wall. these pray places are dedicated for four sects . At the top of the qibla wall, stained-glass windows open across it. The 44 window with six windows in the middle . A wonderful stone podium stands next to the Qibla wall . All the marble motifs engraved in the mihrab, the minbar and other mihrabs are artistic verses, made by Damascene creators who transferred their arts to many parts of the Arab and Islamic countries. The walls of the sanctuary were decorated with mosaics and marble, and many sections of the Umayyad mosaic are still standing in the sanctuary from the north, in addition to the many decorations. Ibn Asaker described the mosaic theme of the southern wall in the form of a golden vine. The corridors and their pillars and arches were all covered with colored glass mosaics, and many sections remain in the front of the sanctuary and in the corridors, and some of what fell from them have been returned, especially the dome of the Treasury, which recently restored its mosaic decoration, and this dome is an octagonal room topped by a dome supported by eight columns. The money of the Muslims was kept in it, then it was used to store valuable manuscripts. This dome was built in the Abbasid era. Another dome is the dome of Zayn al-Abidin, or the clocks are still standing. The Ottoman ablution dome, which was in the middle of the mosque’s courtyard, was recently rebuilt and protected a pool of water for ablution. In the corner of the northern corner near the mosque, the Umayyad Mosque Museum was built in general, and it includes the treasures of the ancient mosque, some stones, carpets, and beautiful calligraphy paintings, with lighting lamps, mosaic, ceramic and glass pieces, Islamic coins, hours and pages of old manuscript Qur’ans, and many important antiquities in the history of the ancient mosque.